# Runtime PMC Meeting 2020-05-12

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

- [EM] Request confirmation to rename some of the App Runtime projects:
  - Rename Garden-Windows to Windows Containers
  - Rename PERSI (Diego Persistence) to Volume Services
  - Rename Loggregator to Logging and Metrics
  - update: all three confirmed

- [EM] Request confirmation of Pablo Schuhmacher as UAA project lead
  - confirmed!


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Zach Robinson


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Miguel Luna


### UAA - (vacant)


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Windows Containers - Kartik Lunkad


### Diego - Josh Collins


### Volume Services - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Logging and Metrics - Jesse Weaver
- Currently investigating future work on scaling logging and allowing log egress in cf4k8s

### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`
- v13.0 is out, some key highlights
  - Inline metrics discovery into the base manifest
    - Two new add-ons in the base manifest that will expose Prometheus-scrapeable metrics endpoints
  - Default to syslog agents and remove syslog adapters
    - Replaces the scalable syslog architecture with the shared-nothing syslog architecture.
  - Remove deprecated and unused properties and ops files

#### `cf-k8s`
- Current
  - Add validation to ensure PRs and the final release are compatible with supported k8s versions
  - Finished internal review of contribution model to consume releases from system component teams
  - Finished spike on validating cf-for-k8s upgradibility on configmap and secrets changes. Next step is to validate in CI.
  - Spike on how-to upgrade statefulsets like the internal postgres database and blobstore.
  - Integrate paketo buildpacks, custom builders.
- Next
  - Prep for 0.3.0 release. Highlights,
    - https support for cf apps
    - Add the paketo buildpacks to cf-for-k8s
  - Resume CATS work once ruby buildpack is available.
- Future
  - CF4K8s How to package smoke tests with cf-for-k8s?
  - Upgrade validation in the main pipeline

### KubeCF (incubating) - Vlad Iovanov

- kubecf 2.2 is out
- eirinix integrated as a helm chart
- working on fixing bugs and improving CI

### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
