# Runtime PMC Meeting 2020-06-09

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Zach Robinson
- preparing to GA v7
  - migrated from a build-tag-based to branch-based strategy to support multiple CLI version lines
  - updating package manager-related processes to enable pulling the latest, or specific, CLI version from the v6, v7, or v[next] line
  - preparing for v7 CLI virtual lab at CF Summit

### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Miguel Luna


### UAA - Pablo Schuhmacher
- New Go-Foward plan in the works for UAA. More to come on this.
- Working on a roadmap with help from VMware leadership and SAP contributors and soon will seek some feedback from the community to drive alignment on UAA's future.

### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Windows Containers - Kartik Lunkad

No updates at this time.


### Diego - Josh Collins


### Volume Services - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Logging and Metrics - Jesse Weaver
- Have worked to explore scalability of current logging infrastructure, esp. around our single-node-only Log Cache deployment
  - Have discovered a [bottleneck in our ingestion](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/log-cache-release/issues/38) that currently caps us at about 500 logs/second; should be possible to achieve closer to 15,000.
- Components have started to use our tools to inject app logs, trying to expose better tools for adding necessary metadata.
- Working on a proof of concept for app log egress.



### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-k8s`


### KubeCF (incubating) - Vlad Iovanov

- released v2.2.2 (minor fix release)
- trying to improve startup times
- CI looks to be more reliable
- improving documentation
- upstreaming more patches
- native UAA is in the current sprint

### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
