# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-07-11

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Expecting release cf CLI 6.29.0 early next week, exposing org default isolation segments. Draft release notes [here](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/147558901).
- Following release will add features to `login`, such as displaying the last login time.
- Progressing well on cross-pairing with CAPI on v3 app lifecycle commands, fleshing out the UX for early adopters to try out and provide feedback.


### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris


### Greenhouse - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Refined logging output of long-running healthcheck
- Making other logging and crash-reason refinements for both types of healthcheck
- Added cfdot commands for Locket API
- Adding endpoint to BBS API for stream of Task events
- Improving resilience of locket servers and clients to errors from updates of HA cf-mysql cluster
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Support CAPI in performing zero-downtime app updates
  - Work with Routing on routing integrity improvements

### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* Will begin publishing release tarballs to github with SHA2 signing

#### `etcd-release`
* Test suite improvements

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* BBL 4.0 (rc). This completes a refactoring to remove much of our IaaS specific code which is another step to plugin-able paving and IaaSes.
* AWS has TCP routers now as a result
* Upcoming: credhub and AWS CIS compliance work

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`
- Community ops-files: These are ops-files supported by members of the community, but hosted in the cf-deployment repo. Shout out to Stark & Wayne for these ops-files.
  - `use-haproxy.yml`. Adds support for HAProxy using the new [haproxy-boshrelease](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease)
  - `enable-volume-service-nfs.yml`. Adds support for NFS volume service for apps.
- cf-networking promoted to default configuration for cf-deployment.
- `use-compiled-releases.yml` now provides a compiled version of every release.
- `use-blobstore-cdn.yml` allows deployers to specify a CDN in front of their blobstore.
  This should help for production deployments transitioning to cf-deployment.

**Transition tooling**
- Compatibility matrix for transitioning from cf-release to cf-deployment includes final versions of cf-deployment.
- Began work on `uptimer`, a tool for asserting different kinds of platform availability during the migration.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- CATs now has branches named `cf*`, that encode versions of cf-deployment that have passed different commits of CATs.
Deployers who want to know which commit of CATs to run against a given cf-deployment can discover that now.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Includes a smoke-test for isolation segments

#### `nats-release`
- Bump `gnatsd` to 0.9.6

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- [cf-mysql-release v36](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release/releases/tag/v36) is released.
- No update for future releases ready yet.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Added support for operators to enable self-service for all space developers based on a BOSH property
- Added a new feature for configuring bandwidth limits for containers to protect from noisy neighbors
- Working on enhancements to support port ranges
- Also working on logging enhancements to include app, space, org information in ASG and c2c logs
- Investigating new tracks of work including platform service discovery and providing app identity outside CF

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
