# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-08-08

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Planning a cf CLI 6.29.1 release this week, resolving two reported minor regressions (in `api` and `auth`). ([Release notes draft](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/149907050)).
- Spiking on `v3-ssh`. Continuing to cross-pair with CAPI on V3 commands.
- Planning to cross-pair with Container Networking later this week on their plugin commands.
- Lots of progress on `push` refactor. Service bindings in manifest almost delivered. Left to do are manifest inheritance and route support.
- Participated in security inception two weeks ago. Intend to share concern about plugins with CFF this week.
- Upcoming release plans:
  - V3 commands for CF community to start trying out. Zach & Mike to work on documentation explaining newly enabled workflows.
  - Container networking plugin commands in cf CLI.
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user).
  - Misc. `login` features, such as displaying the last login time.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

* Two tracks in flight:
  - Finishing rootless (creating container as non-root user) stories for the XFS driver
  - Working on OCI Image support - this is to enable Garden's OCI Buildpacks work
* No long-running D-state processes have been found so far - the GrootFS team believes that it is safe to start migrating to GrootFS.
* Next couple of weeks:
  - We will update OS docs to introduct GrootFS.
  - Cache management stories are expected to land.

### Greenhouse - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing spikes and exploration of LRP update API and implementation
- Buildpack app lifecycle runs on Windows 2016
- Supporting Garden's experiments with handling droplets as OCI image layers
- Removed candiedyaml as a dependency :tada:
- Locket can opt into the v2 Loggregator API
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Work with Routing on routing integrity and availability improvements
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* new feature in flight! As a user I can be given a unique node name to work around 

#### `etcd-release`
* no changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* IAM instance profiles instead of keys on AWS
* flow logs for rejected packets on AWS
* BBL 4.0: all terraform
* Azure in flight
* BBL 5.0 w/ credhub soon. Opt in with —credhub now.

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`
- First draft of documentation for migrating to cf-deployment
- Started uptime explorations for cf-deployment
- Some early charters on integrating with Bosh DNS and Bosh Backup Restore

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- Bumped to `bbl` 4.0.0

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Added a test to validate the app instances can resolve public DNS
- Isolation segment tests cleanup

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No update

#### `nats-release`
- No update

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

- No changes/news

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Capacity Planning test results and progress on an [operator playbook](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c0wmOoH0ZZ8CO1M0WzZOPWaZA0kVj4GcWbF6nrxGcGY/edit#heading=h.k3xyjolnu2m1).
- Cross team pair with rel-int on including scalable syslog in cf-release
- Inception planned Thursday for Custom App metrics functionality. 
- Researching networking partition resiliency with cf-deployment

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA 4.6.0 in progress
  - PR's , PR's and more PR's 
  - Finalizing docs for UAA to be posted to docs.cloudfoundry.org
- Incepting on MFA via Google Authenticator

### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Announced migration period for CC<->Diego secure comm. It starts with CF v269 and ends at CF v274
- API V3 is GA
- Adding support for multiple buildpacks
- Adding orphan blob cleanup

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
