# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-02-21

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Propose moving Persi from incubating to active. No objections raised. Vote email to be sent.


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.24.0, which exposes the new http health check type to monitor a path on the app instances.  
  It also stops bundling the deprecated loggregator consumer library (see [announcement here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)).
- Expecting to publish a release early next week with bash tab completion and few community reported issues.
- Isolation segment stories scheduled for the release thereafter. Also, started the refactor of commands impacted.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Garden-runc 1.2 released with lots of nice new stuff - Highlights:
  - Docker Auth (requires an image_plugin that supports this, built in rootfs manager does not)
  - NetIn/Out moved to Create for c2c
  - RunC bumped to latest version
  - Inspector-garden is gone!!
  - iptables rules now have container guid in comment field!
- Ongoing: Rootless Garden work continues, `experimental_rootless` bosh flag allows opting in
  - can start up garden without root
  - progressing through allowing creating containers without root
- Upcoming:
  - Next release: CPU Maximums
  - Release after that: Better DNS (to support Bosh DNS use case etc), Performance Baseline with "Bucketbench tool"

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- Inception on Windows Server 2016 Containers this past Friday. Will circulate results soon. Quick summary: Investigate OCI-compliant Garden/HCSSCIM layer. Risk: possible dependency on Docker for image layers.
- Aiming to promote `garden-windows-bosh-release` out of the incubator soon.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing with experimental work to store BBS and auctioneer locks in BBS DB instead of Consul
- Finishing initial work on providing instance-identity credentials in containers
- Route-emitter can connect to NATS via link
- Can opt into grootfs via manifest generation
- SSH-proxy can communicate to UAA via internal DNS
- Diego repositories enforce canonical code.cloudfoundry.org import path
- Upcoming:
  - Investigating strategies to migrate cell-presence registrations from consul to the BBS API/DB
  - Local route-emitters register TCP routes in addition to HTTP routes
  - Finish remaining BBS API commands for `cfdot`


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- Upgrade to v0.7.4 imminent
- Will only support TLS v1.2 after upgrade
- consul-release now supports links thanks to a PR from Derek Richard and Dan Wendorf

#### `etcd-release`
- Now will retry if the network of the VM is not up at boot
- v93 allows TLS v1.2 only

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- AWS us-east-1 issues
- Credential isolation / opsfiles in flight

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Removed deprecated properties from manifest generation
- Changes to manifest generation that allow consul-release to ship links
- Use statsd-injector-release instead of loggregator for statsd-injector job (PR)

#### `cf-deployment`
- Pipeline/testing improvements
  - Pipeline performs a dry-run deploy before updating develop branch with new releases.
This test should catch updates that introduce new required properties.
  - Added a release-candidate branch. Currently follows master,
but we'll soon have master track "final" versions of cf-deployment
- Accepted a bunch of PRs:
  - Links:
    - Consul provides and consumes a link. No more static IPs!
    - Remove nats configuration from routing-release jobs and use links instead
  - Ops file for deploying local route emitter
  - Add cfdot job to diego cells

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Use doppler endpoint instead of constructing it from loggregator endpoint
- Bump version of networking plugin and use new networking command

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Add a meaningful error to etcd cluster check test

#### `nats-release`
- no changes

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- A bunch of small fixes based on feedback:
  - Use BBL_STATE_DIR and VARS_STORE_FILE variables consistently
  - Add `--debug` flag to `bbl` commands
  - Fixed a bug with trapped function calls

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- completed postgres acceptance tests
- started evaluating upgrade to PostgreSQL 9.6
- Working on using bosh links

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- No update

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

UAA 3.11.0 Work in progress
- Resurrect offline refresh tokens feature

UAA 4.0.0 Work in progress
- Strict Validation for OAuth redirect URI
- Enforce POST method for /token and /check_token end-points
- Working with GE on UAA Performance Tests (Using jmeter)


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Apps can be migrated into and out of isolation segments
- Introduce cloud_controller.global_auditor scope.
- Secure diego <-> cc communication
  - TPS Watcher completed
  - TPS Listener no longer necessary by feature flag
  - Stager no longer necessary by feature flag
  
### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- The team has been validating Flannel behavior with different etcd failure modes and identifying mitigation strategies
- Working on stability tests and scalability testing to support 20K application instances with 3 policies each
- The rename to `cf-networking-release` is complete, it had several breaking manifest changes that are documented [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/cf-networking-release/blob/develop/docs/manifest-changelog.md)
- Started work on migrating our pipelines to PWS

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
- Instrumented our pineline to collect & store performance metrics 
- Various bug fixes
- Migrated our test environments to SoftLayer 
