# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-11-15

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities

- Proposal to promote routing-release to active project

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper

- Internally testing a survey to gather feedback from the CF community on simplifying the app manifest.
- Expecting to release cf CLI 6.33.0 soon ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/151113529)):
  - Introducing `v2-push`, which is a refactor of `push`.
    Offering both side-by-side for 2 releases to give community time to try out the new implementation and report any issues.
    Calls back to old `push` implementation for app manifests using inheritence, promoted attributes or domain/domains/host/hosts/no-hostname attributes pending survey feedback.
  - Introducing `v3-ssh` to ssh into a container of an app process instance
  - Support to specify path to app dir/zip file to `v3-create-package`
  - Built with Golang 1.9.2
- Cross-team pairing with SAPI team to help them submit a PR for `share-service` command
- Exploring impact CAPI work on multiple UAA origins support
- Exploring server-side app manifest support with CAPI team
- Starting exploration how to make "v3" app commands the default
- Features starting soon:
  - Droplet upload
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
- Further out:
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman


### GrootFS - George Lestaris


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- In-container Envoy proxies are now reconfigured with new instance certs on rotation
- Cell reps allocate extra memory for a container that includes an in-container Envoy proxy
- Deployer can use cf-deployment to opt into TLS-based route integrity
- HTTP health checks now compatible with apps that require TLS-terminated traffic
- cfdot has command to report current cell state (LRPs, Tasks, total/available memory)
- Updated to Golang v1.9.2


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* No changes

#### `etcd-release`
* No changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* CIDR is now configurable
* Added `bbl plan` to allow addition editing of terraform / BOSH before creating infrastructure
* Spiked on vSphere support for BBL

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Runtime-config for component syslog has been updated to prevent sending duplicate logs to syslog drains.

#### `cf-deployment`
- GA is imminent -- we're waiting for one commit to make it through our pipeline.
  - PWS has successfully migrated to cf-deployment, so we have live production use now.
- Had to yank cf-deployment v0.35.0 due to incompatible versions (specifically, loggregator-release v99 and cf-syslog-drain-release v3)
- Migration tooling
  - To prevent syslog failures during the migration, we provide a separate ops-file for disabling Doppler's etcd announcements.
  - We've validated a way to perform the migration without using static IPs.
- Component syslogs
  - cf-deployment provides an ops-file for enabling component syslog. The ops-file can be applied either to a runtime-config or to the manifest directly.
    The former workflow enables syslog on all instance groups, across all deployments; the latter enables syslog only in the given deployment.
  - The ops-file includes a syslog rule that disables logs from programs prepended with `vcap.`,
    the primary impact being that most logs sent to the rsyslog daemon via the `logger` CLI will thrown away.
    Instead, the syslog configuration depends on files being written in `/var/vcap/sys/log` in order to be forwarded.
- Metron is deployed as a deployment-level addon
- Internal database has been re-named -- a few times, actually -- and we've settled on `database` for generality.
- Syslog drain adapters have been split out to a separate instance group.
- Continuing to merge PRs for BBR.
- Windows cells include windows-utils, so operators can SSH onto them.
- Ops-file for maintain BBS encryption key name. This is important for operators migrating from cf-release.
- Ops-file for NFS Service support has been promoted out of the `community` section.
- Ops-file for using GCS as the CC blobstore

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Improvements in some tests so that they don't impede buildpack detection

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No update

#### `nats-release`
- No update

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

- Port, databases, roles, and tls CA are now exported via bosh links
- New property `databases.trust_local_connection` to customize whether or not postgres must trust local connections
- New property `databases.skip_data_copy_in_minor` to customize whether or not a copy of the data directory is created during PostgreSQL minor upgrades
- PostgreSQL version upgrade has been moved to pre-start in order to avoid problems with monit timeout
- The PostgreSQL `startup.log` is now located in bosh standard logs directory `/var/vcap/sys/log/postgres`
- Fixed a bug in configuring SSL

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

- Recently released [cf-mysql v36.8.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release/releases/tag/v36.8.0) and a quick follow-up, [v36.9.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release/releases/tag/v36.9.0).
  - Contains experimental TLS support.
  - In discussions with the cf-deployment team to enable MySQL TLS.
  - Component authors would subsequently have an easy testbed to convert to TLS-only.
  - v36.9.0 also changes the default of [disable_auto_sst](http://bosh.io/jobs/mysql?source=github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release&version=36.9.0#p=cf_mysql.mysql.disable_auto_sst) to `false`.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Testing compatability between loggregator and cf-syslog-drain release for migration (see below)

|Loggregator | cf-syslog-drain   | results   | 
|---|---|---|
|  101.2 | 3.1   | correct routing   | 
|  101.2 | 3.0   | correct routing   | 
| 99 | 3.1 | correct routing | 
| 99 | 3.0 | **incorrect routing** | 
 
- Started on epic for creating a [noisy-neighbor-nozzle](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/epic/show/3796883) and "accumulator" 
- Started on epic for [improved caching layer](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/epic/show/3796887) for Loggregator
- Created an [experimental ops](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator-release#standalone-loggregator) file to deploy v2 loggregator standalone 
- ** Spike ** Research what further can be done to ensure log ordering 
- Customer research on app developers monitoring using "metric drains"

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Completed BBR support for capi-release
- Completed Credhub support for service bindings and service keys
- Completed Multi Origin support
- Working on Named Service Bindings
- Preparing for work on Zero Downtime app deployments

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

### Permissions - Christopher Brown

- In order to remove some of the uncertainty about the Cloud Controller changes
  we're going to do more of that work up front behind a feature flag. This
  includes the actual querying of Perm to determine whether or not an action is
  authorized.
- We're going to be running the two authorization decisions in parallel to
  detect response discrepancies.
- Pausing the migration errand work.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

- Incorporated CIFS/Samba release from MSFT into persi CI pipeline
- Adding production features to efs-volume-release (e.g. multi-AZ support)
- **very soon** CSI will drop a 0.1 version of the container storage interface.  We will need to re-engage on CSI to make sure that the spec works with CF prior to cutting a 1.0 version of CSI.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Completed a round of performance testing around the effect of adding internal routes to NATS
- Working on finishing up phase 0 of service discovery including support for pruning and creating an ops-file for cf-deployment
- We have an updated [feature narrative](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kix6QzXn8Q2Rbgdl97S4E6xsHUTSfKUQJKrBv7JzAVc/edit?usp=sharing) with details of phase 1 for service discovery which adds support for user provided service names. Feedback is much appreciated!

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - V3 app features (multi-process, multi-buildpack) exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0)
|| - Container networking exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.30.0)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
|| 

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
