# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-05-03

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities

The persi team proposes to move nfs-volume-release and its submodules from incubation to active:
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/nfs-volume-release
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/nfsbroker
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/nfsv3driver
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/nfsdriver

Datadog would like to takeover the datadog nozzle.
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/datadog-firehose-nozzle-release

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Currently working on release focusing on UX improvements and bug fixes around plugin installation and management.
- Completed refactor of application security group (ASG) related commands that we're enhancing in the next release to expose space scoped ASGs.
- Restarted v2 push refactor, target of private docker registry and droplet upload support.
- Upcoming releases focus on catch-up with CC/UAA exposed functionality (space scoped application security groups, org default isolation segments, last login time, private docker registry and droplet upload support).

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris


### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- No update.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Updated diego-release to Golang 1.8.1, which fixes droplet caching
- Conducted some initial reproduction work around healthcheck stability
- Accommodated cflinuxfs2 release rename
- Fixed executor bug where process invocation could block forever, exacerbated by garden-runc spawning bug
- Fixed indexing bug in LRP convergence
- Instance guids now fit into iptables logging prefixes without truncation
- Contributed local-route-emitter and locket changes to cf-deployment
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Improve LRP health-check efficiency, reliability with more declarative specification
  - Support CAPI in performing zero-downtime app updates


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- More flexible links in latest release

#### `etcd-release`
- First steps in Golang init scripts

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- AWS terraform opt-in features complete (will be mandatory in bbl 4.0)
- BBL with credhub in flight

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- haproxy job uses link for router configuration if possible.

#### `cf-deployment`
- Major work on migration from cf-release to cf-deployment
  - Tool to extract a vars-store from a given CF and Diego manifest.
  - Successfully CI'ing a migration from cf-release to cf-deployment.
    Next, we want to make assertions about uptime during the transition.
- Ops-files
  - Experimental ops-files for deploying with locket
- Updates
  - Garden debug server enabled by default
  - Routing API deployed by default. TCP routing still requires an ops-file.
    This should allow deployers to take advantage of other routing features,
    such as routing isolation segments.
  - Automatically updating garden-windows-release and hwc-buildpack-release
    (as we do with other releases).

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Updated CLI version to 6.26

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Updated CLI version to 6.26

#### `nats-release`
- No change.

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Added minimal bosh links set
- Spiking on securing PostgreSQL with SSL

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Scalable syslog canary testing
- Finalizing release details for cf-deployment and bosh.io
- Created ops file for deploying loggregator without etcd in cf-deployment
  - Note: removing etcd in cf-deployment will require services to use a metron version for Loggreator 72 or greater

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA Release [v34](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa-release/releases/tag/v34) with bosh links
- https://www.cloudfoundry.org/cve-2017-4974/ & https://www.cloudfoundry.org/cve-2017-4972/
- UAA Performance Testing is in progress
- UAA 4.0.0 Release in progress
  - SAML IDP/SP Key Rotation
  - Merged multiple PRs from GE
  

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Wrapping up secure diego <-> cc communication work
  - Rolled out to A1 successfully
  - Rolling out to PWS for validation soon
  - Will make documentation avaialble after PWS feedback
- Continued track to GA V3 API
- Adding support for private docker registries
- Removed TPS Watcher consul dependency for locking

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- nfs volume release 1.0 is released.  (our first non pre-release release)
- experimental work to support kerberos is removed from nfs-volume-release and moved to the attic (https://github.com/cloudfoundry-attic/kerbdriver)
- nfs-volume-release & its submodules proposed for migration from incubation to active
- ECS bosh release work ongoing (bosh support for deployment of elastic cloud storage and an ecs broker, plus broker enhancements to support NFS shares of ECS buckets)
- Container Storage Interface working group meetings continue.  Interface proposal is still pre-alpha.  Next meeting is tomorrow.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Beta version of `silk` with a CNI plugin, daemon and controller released as part of cf-networking-release [v0.22.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/cf-networking-release/releases/tag/v0.22.0)
- This is now deployed to A1 and is being deployed to PWS
- In the upcoming weeks the team will continue to work on hardening and adding metrics 

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
