# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-10-03

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.32.0 with experimental V3 commands for multiple processes, granular push control and multiple buildpack support. ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0))
- Added [documentation](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/cf-cli/self-signed.html) that since the 6.31.0 release, which was built with Golang 1.9, the cf CLI accepts CA certs from `SSL_CERT_FILE` and `SSL_CERT_PATH` environment variables on Linux for TLS validation of API endpoints.
- Continuing work on V3 commands (`v3-create-package -p`, `.cfignore`) and preparation for `v3-ssh`
    - Expecting subsequent releases to apply user feedback, as well as taking advantage of post-GA CC V3 API improvements.
- Progress on `push` refactor:
  - Exploring calling back to old `push` implementation for outstanding features so we can start releasing it for user evaluation (and in particular, consumption by CATS and other test sets). Outstanding `push` features include app manifest with global attributes, "inherit" or route attributes other than "routes", as well as route related flags (`-d`, `--hostname`, ...). ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/151113529))
- Dr. Max joining our team for 2 weeks to improve our i18n support and interaction with translation contributors.
- Further out:
  - Service instance sharing
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Droplet upload
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman

 - Ongoing: Rootless nearing completion, CATs passing, intend to start running in PWS asap
 - Ongoing: OCI Phase 1 unblocked by new grootfs release, now doing final integration and preparing to run benchmarks
 - New: /sys/fs/cgroup now mounted read-only in containers
 - New: Published blog on cloudfoundry.org about rootless work
 - Next: Starting work on experimental "OCI Phase 2" items
 - Next: Incepted on Garden Sidecars "Peas" work 

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

#### Past couple of weeks

* Cut v0.26.0 with all the rootless and most of the OCI Buildpacks work.
* Have been trying to reduce the surface area of GrootFS by removing unused BOSH properties and features.
* Updated CF docs to create custom stacks that work with CF.
* _Cache managememt_ work in flight.
* _OCI Buildpacks_ feature to dowload droplets has been delivered today.

#### Next couple of weeks

* We should be finishing the _cache management_ track.
* We need to add one more feature for OCI buildpacks to work rootless.
* Scoping and possibly incepting work with Garden Windows.

### Garden-Windows - A William Martin / Colin Jackson

- cf-deployment opsfile for windows2016 stack accepted
- cf ssh now supported for Windows 2016 containers, awaiting PRs to Diego
- SMB investigation continues
- GrootFS conversation started around support for Windows, esp. re pushing OCI/docker images and support for private docker registry/repos (need CAPI's help)
- Work continues on proper consumption of the Windows Server Core base image for windows2016fs-release, i.e. "hydration" strategy with an executable and follow-up `bosh create-release`
- 2012R2 support for buildpack app lifecycle accepted (for CredHub service credentials)
- Started developing against Windows Server technical preview release (i.e. 1709 release), which provides the key isolation characteristics needed for CF

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished configuring Envoy proxy to host instance-identity certificate
- Updating BBS benchmarks to work with LRP convergence enabled
- Option to override Docker image used in CATs to work around inability to run Envoy proxy in some Docker containers
- Added instance guid to instance-identity cert as a DNS SAN in anticipation of gorouter adoption of Golang 1.9
- Configuring cf-deployment components to use Locket by default
- Improved resilience of Locket to MySQL connection errors
- Starting work for Docker App Lifecycle launcher to interpolate CredHub references
- Upcoming:
  - Start implementing APIs for rolling updates of LRPs
  - Run system container processes (long-running healthchecks, Envoy) as Garden sidecars
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Exploring upgrade to go 1.9.x
- Adding support for gorouter optimized for availability, when TLS is used to backends
- Support for BBR in flight

### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* PR from Pivotal Web Services , they were hitting issues with consul timing out during gossiping encrypt keys when they several hundred VMs. Their PR adds a new configurable timeout: confab.timeout. https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/consul-release/pull/78
* There is an issue using BOSH DNS and consul together on windows. We will address it this week: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/151571316

#### `etcd-release`
No changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* 5.0rc is out
* 5.1 will add a jump box to Azure
* Azure load balancers currently waiting on a new terraform provider to be released with Azure Application Gateways
* We are beginning to refactor how state is stored. We’re not releasing a minor revision, as this should be a completely internal refactoring. If you interact with BBL’s state director outside of bbl, we are interested in talking to you.


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Attempting adding cf-syslog-drain-release, but had to revert due to problems with manifest generation.
- Bosh-lite certificates issue
  - A few weeks ago, some of the hard-coded certificates for bosh-lite expired.
    The result was a bit of a mess, where cf-release, diego-release, and routing-release manifest generation needed to be fixed.
    For users, the failure mode were failed bosh deploys.
    The certificates have been regenerated, and should expire well after cf-release deprecation. The fix will be released in the upcoming cf-release.

#### `cf-deployment`
- Openstack support has been added, thanks to a PR from Marco Voelz and the SAP team.
- instance_group re-architecture
  - Replaces syslog_drain_binder with cf-syslog-drain-release
  - `etcd` has been completely removed. We're working on accounting for this in the tooling for migrating from cf-release.
  - Consolidates some instance groups
  - Consumes CC Bridge as default configuration
- Uses the same vm_extensions for load balancers across all IaaSes
- Runtime config for deploying syslog-release for _platform_ syslog
- Metron agent tags metrics with the bosh deployment name (instead of the system_domain, which was the previous behavior)

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Uses native cf-networking commands in the CLI, rather than plugin commands

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No update

#### `nats-release`
- No update

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

- no update

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

- no update

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Removed rsyslog forwarding from Metron. 
- Removed UDP listening on Doppler.
- Working to remove consul and etcd
  - Not succesful on cf-release
  - Moving forward on removing consul for etcd
- Progress on ability to opt in to receive container metrics in a syslog drain as an opt-in
- Overlap with filtering messages from Dopplers to RLPs 
- Feedback on Event Envelope Type 
- Gathering feedback about "noisy neighbor" feature work track

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA 4.5.2 fixes a performance issue with /Users
- UAA 4.6.1 addresses a memory leak introduced due to mertics collection.
- In Progress
  - Performance & Scaling Metrics
  - Multifactor Auth with Google Authenticator
  - Bosh Back up and Recovery for UAA DB
  - Integration guides for SiteMinder, ADFS

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Completed work to provide BBR functionality for CCDB
- Working on support for service brokers that use Credhub to store service bindings and service keys

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

- OSBAPI v2.13 released; CF already fully supports this and the CC advertises v2.13 in the header sent to brokers
- Includes ability for service brokers to advertise schemas declaring the configuration parameters they can accept for creating a service instance, updating a service instance and creating a service binding (see [release notes](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/blob/master/release-notes.md))
- Continued work on service instance sharing track
- Investigating some permissions issues regarding visibility of service instances and bindings in different spaces

### Permissions - Christopher Brown

* Role creations and deletions are now propagated to the service. We're still
  looking for all the edge cases when this can happen.

* We're getting the service production ready: metrics, logs, access logs,
  service discovery, etc.

Next steps:

* Persistence of the data into a database.

* A migration tool to move the permissions data from Cloud Controller to Perm.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- CF networking is out of incubation, v1.8.0 is on [bosh.io](http://bosh.io/releases/github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-networking-release?all=1)!
- The team has been working on polyglot service discovery and pairing with the Diego and routing teams. 
- Working through the feedback received so far on the [feature proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kix6QzXn8Q2Rbgdl97S4E6xsHUTSfKUQJKrBv7JzAVc/edit?usp=sharing)

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- reworked cf-deployment approach got submitted to cf-relInt team, waiting for merge 
- finished the "copying packages" workflow 


## CF Feature Roadmap Review
See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - V3 app features (multi-process, multi-buildpack) exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0)
|| - Container networking exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.30.0)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - System container helpers via Garden sidecars (Diego, Garden)
||
*Future* |
|| - Addressing placement scenarios for "boulder" app instances (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
