# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-04-18

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper

- Released cf CLI 6.26.0 exposing isolation segments.
- Currently working on release focusing on UX improvements and bug fixes around plugin installation and management.
- Restarted v2 push refactor, target of private docker registry and droplet upload support.
- Upcoming releases focus on catch-up with CC/UAA exposed functionality (space scoped application security groups, org default isolation segments, last login time, private docker registry and droplet upload support).

### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Garden 1.4.0 and 1.5.0 releases with:
  - New less self-destructive behaviour for `.Wait()` (but some clients will want to opt-in to old behaviour for now)
  - Fixes for a TTY behaviour regression
  - Experimental Block IO cgroup enforcement
  - Better integration with networking plugins (+ misc networking-related operator quality of life improvements)
  - Networking for rootless mode
- Next: 
  - Incepting on exposing and exploiting filesystem layers in the garden API to improve performance of the cloud foundry platform next week

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

* Still pending on 50% rollout in PWS.
* New metrics and metrics docs. Released with GrootFS **v0.17.0** to get more visibility on occasional Diego CI slowness.
* Improved the performance of the store measuring process, which occurs in every `grootfs create` call to decide on whether or not `grootfs` should perform graph cleanup.

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- Started work on Windows Server 2016 containers
  - Should enable proper network isolation and rootfs features
  - Initial scoping affords a new implementation at the Gardener container plugin layer.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished TCP route-registrations from the local route-emitters
- Finished rotation of instance-identity credentials before end of validity
- Improved locket logging, added basic metrics for locks and cell registrations
- Improved logging in rep and cacheddownloader around download contention
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Improve LRP health-check efficiency, reliability with more declarative specification
  - Support CAPI in performing zero-downtime app updates


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- properties available to disable consul for BOSH DNS testing / migration
- Unit tests being run on Windows continuously

#### `etcd-release`
- links available in latest versions
- did a load testing experiment to see if tuning parameters can be recommended

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- AWS move from cloudformation to terraform 1/2 stories complete.
- Brings AWS and GCP feature parity
- Paves way for more IaaS soon
- Credhub support coming

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Cut CF v256.
- HAProxy job can consume the router and ssh proxy links.
- A1 deploys Diego cells as `r4`. Starting to get technical validation for 4th-gen AWS instance types.
- The `acceptance_tests` errand allows for the full configuration of the test suite,
Previously, it was impossible to opt in to some of the newer test suites
because the configuration parameters were not exposed in the job spec.

#### `cf-deployment`
- Concourse tasks use `bbl` v3.
- Rename the networks and stemcells in cf-deployment to `default` (Thanks to a PR from Dr. Nic)
- Ongoing work to develop a migration path from cf-release.
  - We've set up a "target" migration environment in CI.
  - cf-deployment contains a tool for extracting credentials from CF and Diego manifests
    and saving them in a vars-store that is compatible with cf-deployment.
  - The team is currently spiking on other steps required for the migration.
    The next step will be to add the migration into CI.
  - Future work: making the target migration environment look more like a production deployment
    (uses s3, rather than webdav, as the blobstore, for example).
- PRs:
  - New mutual TLS credentials for rep-blobstore communication
  - `consul_server` link is shared across deployments.
  - TCP router uses an explicit name for its default router group.
  - Update windows release versions.
  - Fix issues with bosh-lite cloud-configs IP range.
  - Garden debug server is now enabled by default.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- CATs has been updated so that its assertions are less brittle.
This work was driven out by changes to the CLI that updated error messages.
The tests are backwards compatible -- they should work against both 6.25 and 6.26 of the CLI.
- CATs no longer tries to create a new quota for organizations that already exist.
If you're using `use_existing_organization` in your CATs config,
The test suite will no longer create and set a new quota for that org.
- Syslog drain test has logic to preventing it from `panic`ing during test failures (thanks to _several_ PRs).

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Like CATs, the smoke-tests have been updated to allow for changes made in CLI 6.26.
The tests are backwards compatible -- they should work against both 6.25 and 6.26 of the CLI.

#### `nats-release`
- No changes.

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- cf-mysql-release v35 will come out this week. Highlights:
  - Now uses standard route-registrar lib
    - Proxy dashboards now easier to find: proxy-p-mysql.SYSTEM-DOMAIN
  - PRs: Provide links for use by cf-deployment, innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit configurable

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Identified fix for message reliability dip identified in Loggregator 79
- Created automated pipeline for measuring message reliabiltiy for all Loggregator release candidates
- Moved to using Bosh Links for service discovery in Traffic Controller replacing etcd
  - Note: This change applies to CF-Deployment only and is not incldued in cf-release
- Upcoming: Finishing touches for Scalable Syslog Release 

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- UAA Performance Testing is in progress
- UAA 4.0.0 Release in progress
  - Strict Validation for OAuth redirect URI
  - Enforce POST method for /token and /check_token end-points
  - SAML IDP/SP Key Rotation
  - UAA Bosh Release ERB Validations for required properties
  - Enable deletion of users and clients via YML & Bosh Manifest
  - Documentation for mapping between UAA Bosh manifest and UAA YML properties
  - UAA API docs Table of Contents load time improvements - On hold waiting for a new slate version
  - Version Filtering for UAA API Docs - On hold waiting for a new slate version

### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Continued secure diego <-> cc communication work
  - Code complete
  - Working on community documentation for migrating off the bridge
  - Rolling out the A1 and PWS for validation
- Continued track to GA V3 API
- Upcoming
  - Scoping excercise for zero downtime app deployments
  - Remove consul locking dependency from TPS Watcher by using locket

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Continuing to work on a SQL-based replacement for Flannel
- The Silk CNI plugin is waiting to be deployed in PWS

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- various bug fixes and documentation updates 
- added additional operational metrics 
- started migration tests (from non-bits-service to cf to bits-service cf) for eventual integration in cf-release
- Meeting with CAPI this week to clarify on the remaining issues required for potential adoption

### HAProxy-boshrelease - Geoff Franks

- New security-focused release with improved SSL support, and updated binaries
