# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-02-08

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released an update to the Diego Enabler plugin to output a warning when migrating an app from DEA to Diego without routes (as the backend defaults to port health checking, a worker app may fail to start).
- Close to releasing cf CLI 6.24.0, which exposes the new http health check type to monitor a path on the app instances.  
  It also stops bundling the deprecated loggregator consumer library (see [announcement here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)), which means commands that connect to loggregator may fail on CF releases that do not expose the doppler endpoint.  
  The doppler endpoint was deemed stable since CF v203, so there should be no impact with any CF releases since.  
  We have taken advantage of this opportunity to remove code branches that cater for older CF releases, in particular CF releases before v196 (the time of split of domains into shared and private ones).
- The following release should follow soon after, introducing bash tab completion and addressing a few community reported issues.
- Space-scoped staging application group stories have been written, explored, pointed and scheduled for the release after.
- Isolation segment stories have been written and explored as well, leading to requests for CAPI to prepare additional V3 API endpoints so that the new commands and options to support this feature do not need to mix calls to V2 *and* V3 APIs.
- Investigated what `cf push` does, to break up its refactor into sizable chunks. The final stages of the `cf push` orchestration are basically `cf start` and `cf app`, so begun refactoring those.
  - Explored improvements to `cf push`'s resource matching and app upload processes, to reduce file I/O in order to resolve reported issues with slow upload speed as well as high CPU usage due to anti-virus software kicking in checking temporary files written to /tmp. Will spike on this when we get to the refactor of this part of `cf push` code.
- No progress on the proposal on JSON formatted output of CLI commands for easier scripting - still expecting to share it soon.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Fixed a few local-route-emitter bugs, expect ready for scale
- BBS no longer instructs cells to discard unplaceable work during evacuation
- Working on storing BBS lock in relational DB
- Migrating more CI and developer environments from AWS to GCP
- Investigating performance impact of generating TLS credentials for app instances
- Fixed a significant source of vizzini flakiness on ketchup
- Manifest-generation changes to accommodate container networking and CC TLS changes
- Upcoming:
  - Investigating strategies to migrate cell-presence registrations from consul to the BBS API/DB
  - Start providing instance-specific credentials to CF apps
  - Finish remaining BBS API commands for `cfdot`


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`


#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Bumped v13 into cf-release [link](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release/commit/e2fff1c27c728ade02551de4353454bb5a004a73)
- Integrating acceptance-tests into pipeline

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA 3.10.0 Released. Release Notes [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/3.10.0)
- Work in progress
  - Resurrect offline token feature for IBM
  - Strict Validation for OAuth redirect URI

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- nfs broker is now cf-pushable.  Released to bosh.io this morning as v0.1.2
- Met yesterday with Orange Telecom in France to discuss extensions they are contributing to nfs-volume-release to allow setting of mount options on nfs volume mounts.
- Met this morning with the Dell EMC Isilon team to discuss getting their new AWS Isilon simulator into our CI pipeline, and to possibly take the first steps toward BOSH packaging for that.
- Set to meet with folks from Mesos, Kubernetes and Docker this Friday to discuss (again) the possibility of forging a common volume plugin specification.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
