# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-11-28

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Distributed a survey to gather feedback from the CF community on simplifying the app manifest. Giving people another week to reply. Received over 100 responses so far.
- Released cf CLI 6.33.0 ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.33.0)):
  - Introduces `v2-push`, which is a refactor of `push`. Try it out and give us your feedback!
    We will offer both versions of push side-by-side for limited time for community to try the new implementation and report any issues.
- Cross-team pairing with SAPI team to help them submit a PR for `share-service` command
- Exploring server-side app manifest support with CAPI team
- Starting exploration how to make "v3" app commands the default
- Features starting soon:
  - Support symlinks in app files for v2-push
  - Droplet upload
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
- Further out:
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Last login time displayed on `login`


### Garden - Julz Friedman

  - early benchmarks for OCI phase 1: look quite promising, ~1 second performance improvement for large droplets in normal case (note this phase only expects minor improvements so this is very nice), very large improvements for where droplet has already been downloaded to the cell (e.g. scaling apps in smaller environments)
  - delivered: "Garden Peas" MVP delivered, diego now integrating
  - free extra memory! delivered a feature that makes garden's init process use less container memory, so there's more for apps
  - investigating updated xenial stemcells to see if they improve edge cases we've observed with XFS quotas + overlay
  - merging Groot back in to garden, working on extracting groot library to allow Windows team to create a windows version of groot to support docker/oci images on windows
  - started a track of "good citizen" work to pro-actively contribute to upstream projects (runc, containers/image etc) that we use

### GrootFS - George Lestaris


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Improved BBS resilience to Postgres unavailability
- Locket reports metrics about database usage, maximum query latency
- Fixing container management bug when cells provide instance-identity credentials but not container proxy
- Moving long-running healthchecks and Envoy into sidecar containers
- Envoy executable blob updated and labeled with commit SHA


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* No changes.

#### `etcd-release`
* No changes.

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* vSphere support added
* Planning to remove the --no-director flag and relevant workflows in v6.0.0. Supplanted by `bbl plan`
* BOSH lite on GCP workflow added
* Routing isolation segment on AWS workflow added
* OpenStack environment created, work being scoped for OpenStack support.

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

- Fixed a bug in reporting a failed upgrade in error.

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

- Released [cf-mysql-release v36.10.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release/releases/tag/v36.10.0) last week.
  - Updates to syslogging, now depends on syslog-release BOSH add-on (in Runtime config) or [operations file](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-deployment/blob/v36.10.0/operations/enable-syslog.yml).
  - Changed the default of `cf_mysql.mysql.enable_local_file` which turned out to be overly-restrictive.
- v36.11.0 will update to more recent versions of dependencies (MariaDB, xtrabackup).

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Loggregator featured on go-time podcast! Check out the discussion on "diodes" and "envelopes" in the [latest episode](https://changelog.com/gotime/61).
- Follow ups on log ordering research 
   - Sent [PR](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/pull/1273) to CLI for batching/ordering change. 
   - Planning some README updates for syslog ingestion and other cleints
   - Investigating a bug on `cf logs --recent` ordering. 
- New Epic / Bosh release - [Log Cache](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/log-cache-release)   

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

- All CAPI work to support service instance sharing is now done
- CLI work for `cf v3-share-service` is done
- CLI work for `cf v3-unshare-service` is underway

### Permissions - Christopher Brown

* No notable updates from last meeting.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Completed stories for pruning for service discovery feature and added documentation for operators
- In preparation to deploy to PWS, we are creating an ops-file for cf-deployment and adding a health endpoint and metrics for service discovery components
- Collaborating with the routing team on integrating with Istio Pilot for the next phase that will support user-provided service names

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

Finished the story on droplet flows 
Resumed work around TLS/mTLS for the bits-service, finished TLS support for clients -> Bits Service 
Started to publish the bits-service releases on bosh.io 
Worked with the CLI team to integrate bits-service into the CLI flows 

## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - V3 app features (multi-process, multi-buildpack) exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0)
|| - cf-deployment GA; Started two-month deprecation period for cf-release ([announcement](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/g/cf-dev/message/7535))
||
*Soon* | - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
