# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-03-08

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities

Per discussion with Chip, it's enough to vote during the Runtime PMC meeting to move projects to active.
With Julian's update to last [PMC note](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/pmc-notes/blob/master/Runtime/2017/2017-02-21-runtime.md#persi---julian-hjortshoj) with specific repos to move to active, any objections?  If no objections, raised during the meeting, they will be promoted to active within the Runtime PMC and can be moved to the main cloudfoundry github org.

- No objections raised during the meeting call.

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.25.0, with tab completion, memory and disk limits on tasks and a compiler flag change that resulted in 30% smaller binaries.
- Isolation segment release on track for release in a week or two.
- Exploring CLI UX for private docker registries. Also exploring assumptions around scripting with the cf CLI.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

* Implemented Docker support in the Overlay-XFS filesystem driver.
  - Removed the need for `xfs_quotas` when getting stats for an image.
* Added ops-file that works with cf-deployment.
* Several fixes and improvements in GrootFS to align behaviour with Garden expectations.
* Made GrootFS more robust by avoiding to let partially created images pollute the cache.
* Prepared a Datadog dashboard to closely monitor and assess the upcoming deployment in PWS.

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Cells can experimentally opt into registering themselves via the locket API
- Tightening up failover timing of BBS and auctioneer locks via "locket" service instead of Consul
- First pass at providing instance-identity credentials in containers done
- Cells remove executor cache size from auto-configured advertised capacity
- `cfdot` commands at parity with BBS API endpoints
- Route-emitters fail fast on startup if NATS client misconfigured
- Working on having the local route-emitters support TCP route registrations
- Working on having cells optionally support v2 Loggregator API to metron agent
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Validate locket performance at 1000-cell scale
  - Rotate instance-identity credentials before end of validity


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Shipped routing-release 0.146.0, included in cf-release v253
  - There are now only two default ciphers
  - Smoke test added
  - Additional metrics for unregister messages and websockets
  - Bug fix to double-? issue
  - Debug servers listen on localhost by default
- Shipped routing-release 0.147.0
  - Retry when an idle keepalive connection is dropped when a container is destroyed
  - Relational database required for routing-api
  - Two-phase migration from etcd: first upgrade to v141-146 without migration, then deploy with config for relational db
  - Default for Gorouter `drain_wait` is now 20s (was 0)
- Final releases on Github now include auto-generated performance reports
- Migrating CI environments to GCP

### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* removed some reasons for us to vendor consul, more to follow

#### `etcd-release`
* process management script has reduced total time it waits for etcd cluster to avoid being reaped by monit

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* New bbl version 3 will introduce a breaking change, migration to bosh-deployment, requiring recreate of director to roll forward.

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`


#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Bumped v14 that fixes an issue that may occur while deploying a new postgres-release version
- Working on PostgreSQL 9.6

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- cf-mysql-release v34 has been released, and is now reflected in [cf-deployment](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment/blob/master/cf-deployment.yml)

  Release v34 focuses on security and tuning changes, as well as dependency upgrades. Also includes a feature to reduce API downtime during a rolling deployment when a load balancer is used above the Switchboard proxies.
- cf-mysql-release v35 will continue to focus on stability and security of the default deployment.

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Making progress on scalable syslog release (currently in [incubator](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/scalable-syslog-release)
- Pairing with diego on gRPC ingress into metron work
- Released the inclusion of app org and space name in syslog drains [Loggregator 77](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator/releases/tag/v77)


### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Audit events for Org create, update, and delete via PR
- Compute Isolation Segments are complete pending CLI support
- VCAP_APP_HOST environment variable available for apps migrating from DEA
- Secure diego <-> cc communication
  - NSync Bulker no longer necessary by feature flag

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- See notes above regarding proposed promotion of various persi repos from incubation to active
- Last week we hosted folks from the Dell EMC ECS team to work on 1) a bosh release for ECS and 2) an exension to the existing ECS service broker that also supports exposing buckets as volume mounts (as opposed to the S3 connection supported today)
- Next week we will meet again with Kubes, Docker & Mesos to discuss the Common Volume Interface
- Released nfs-volume-release v0.1.6 that includes support for cf-scaling & blue/green upgrade of nfsbroker, additional mount options on nfs mounts, and read-only mounts.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
- Bits service pair has been on hold for the last two weaks, working on a (larger) PR for the cloud Controller about a performance issue identified in Bluemix 
- Once validated on a larger environment to be effective, we'll contribute that back to the community 
