# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-05-31

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- No major updates since 2 weeks ago:
- Plan for cf CLI with DEA phase-out documented in [release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/140879877). After the upcoming release we will email CF Dev with the intention to move the Diego-Enabler plugin to the attic. No rush.
- Very nearly completing cf CLI release focusing on UX improvements and bug fixes around plugin installation and management.
- Cross-pairing with CAPI on v3 app commands (subcommands that together lead to & make up v3-push). When this set has completed, we will take some time exploring new workflows. For now the commands are bare-bones and need to be revisited before publicly exposing them.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris


### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- [winc](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/winc) containers CLI successfully creates, deletes, and executes containers on Windows Server 2016.
- winc supports read-only bind mounts on Windows.
- Standing up pipelines to produce Windows Server 2016 development stemcells on GCP.
- Turning off pipelines for the old DiegoWindows MSI.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Resolved auctioneer state request issue, diego-release now on Golang 1.8.3
- Continuing experiments to reproduce healthcheck stability issues
- App developers see log output from healthcheck invocation that declared instance unhealthy
- Improved safety of components claiming both a Consul lock and a Locket lock
- BBS includes container IP on ActualLRP networking info
- Increased size limit on Routes data to accommodate cases of hundreds of HTTP routes
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Support CAPI in performing zero-downtime app updates
  - Adding cfdot commands for locket API


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Upgraded to PostgreSQL 9.6.3 with postgres-release v17 and cf-release v260. This drops support for upgrading from PostgreSQL 9.4.6.
- Working on enabling SSL on server

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Wrapping up secure diego <-> cc communication work
  - Will make documentation avaialble after PWS feedback
- Continued track to GA V3 API
  - Introduced [Builds](http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/3.19.0/index.html#builds) resource
  - Working with CLI to add v3-push command

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Track of work to move to Silk CNI plugin is almost complete. The team is working on an FAQ that will be shared shortly.
- Upcoming work includes support for container networking quotas, bandwidth configuration and support for port ranges.
- Also working on larger feature proposals for logging enhancements and support for extending policy to include IP address(es) as destiantions. 

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

### HAProxy boshrelease - Geoff Franks

- bunch of new releases since last update, notable features:
  - **BOSH Links** support for consuming from routing-release + Diego's SSH proxy
  - Ability to specify bind interface for haproxy
  - Ability to disable TLS v1.0/1.1
