# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-09-20

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion
- Discussed inclusion of CFF Roadmap section at the end of these notes that each PM will be responsible for keeping up to date for the week.
  - Agreed to try it with the next bi-weekly PMC notes

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.31.0 with Docker image support in the app manifest. ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.31.0))
- Planning to release late this week/early next week our experimental V3 commands (for multiple processes, granular push control and multiple buildpack support). ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/149541909))
- Continuing work on V3 commands (`v3-env`, `v3-unset-env`) and preparation for `v3-ssh`
    - Expecting subsequent releases to apply user feedback, as well as taking advantage of post-GA CC V3 API improvements.
- Progress on `push` refactor:
  - Exploring calling back to old `push` implementation for outstanding features so we can start releasing it for user evaluation (and in particular, consumption by CATS and other test sets). Outstanding `push` features include app manifest with global attributes, "inherit" or route attributes other than "routes", as well as route related flags (`-d`, `--hostname`, ...). ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/151113529))
- Further out:
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Droplet upload
  - Service instance sharing
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman

 - Let's get ready to rootless: rootless garden work complete, going to attempt to enable feature flag on PWS and - if stable - will start transitioning to this as new default.
 - OCI phase one: still blocked on groot, hopefully unblocked tomorrow then ready to be enabled experimentally.
 - Sidecar containers: design document circulating, intend to incept on this in next 2-3 weeks (taking the space opened up by completion of rootless track)
 - Umask-hardened stemcell compatibility: current release makes garden compatible with umask-hardened stemcell, next garden release makes garden fully take advantage of new umask hardening rules

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

#### Past couple of weeks

* **Rootless:** Still wrapping up some rough edges with rootless.
  - Few things came up (thankfully) by having Garden fully integrate with rootless GrootFS.
  - Exploring the removal of the BTRFS driver from GrootFS.
* **OCI Buildpacks:** Spiking and working on integration with the blobstore to have GrootFS download the droplets (part of OCI Buildpacks phase 1).
* **Cache Management:** Added some cache management metrics.
* `grootfs create` returns a partial OCI runtime spec JSON. This is part of our last iteration on the Garden - Image Plugin interface.

#### Next couple of weeks

* **Cache Management:** We had a feature kickoff with the team today. We should be able to complete the work for the new cache management configuration in the next couple of weeks.
* **OCI Buildpacks / Rootless:** Last (rootless) story is currently in-flight. We should be cutting a release after that. No new work on these tracks is expected.

### Garden-Windows - Colin Jackson

* PR to cf-deployment for experimental windows 2016 opsfile.
* Found a technical difficulty with mounting SMB shares onto the host and then through to Windows Server Containers. Exploring alternative solutions.
* Started work on backporting the buildpackapplifecycle to work on the windows2012R2 stack for multi-buildpack support and credhub ref resolution.


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Running a Consul-independent environment in Diego CI: BOSH DNS, no Consul service registrations or locks
- Integrated option to use BOSH Process Manager to containerize Diego jobs
- Integrated latest Loggregator client as part of v2 adoption
- Fixed bug preventing Tasks from completing with Envoy present
- Upcoming:
  - Start implementing APIs for rolling updates of LRPs
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Continuing support for TLS to backends and validation of app identity
- Working with Infrastructure team to enable config of IaaS networking, firewall rules, and load balancers for dedicated routing to isolation segments, using bbl


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- consul clients will not fail if the servers are scaled to zero to support migration to BOSH DNS

#### `etcd-release`
- no changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- Exposing the terraform internals of BBL a little more
- Exposing more control over the `bosh create-env`, ops files, cloud configs, etc
- Azure load balancers in flight
- Setting up an openstack env

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Upcoming release will include cf-syslog-drain-release

#### `cf-deployment`
- IaaS compatibility validated for vSphere and Azure
- cf-deployment has some early validation for BOSH DNS
- TCP Router deployed in cf-deployment by default

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- Tasks are compatible with BOSH directors that include CredHub

#### `uptimer`
- Improvements to logic for measuring log uptime when cells are draining

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Most widely-used app in CATs has been replaced with a Golang application to reduce test flakiness
- ASG tests updated to be able to pass on Azure

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No update

#### `nats-release`
- No update

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Fixing bug found during DB minor upgrade
- Investigating an issue with monit when start phase is long (due to upgrade)
- Reinforcing client authentication configuration by optionally disable the trust authentication for local connections
- Spiking on providing some hooks

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

- Bugfix for the newly added cert_chain + private_key  configuration logic
  related to newlines, to make life easier for operators
- The TCP backends now consume the `health_check_http` link property, failing back
  to values configured in the manifest (like other tcp backend link properties).
- New release forthcoming to support mutual TLS on frontend + backend connections

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Renamed scalable syslog to cf-sylog-drain release and posted to bosh.io
- Cut several releases to allow for inclusion of cf-syslog-drain into cf-release
- Finalized several updates with our go-loggregator client
   - one of these broke container metrics for users running `cf app`
   - additional test coverage has been added to CATs for this
- Investigated the use of BOSH DNS instead of CONSUL   
- Removing UDP from Doppler notice. 
- Removing rsyslog configuration from Metron delayed.

Upcoming: 
- Experimental feature: container metrics in syslog drains. 
- Defining an event type for Loggregator v2

Operator/Developer Feedback:
- We are seeking feedback about potential large feature narratives. 
Please get in touch if you have particular pain points or ideas.

We are looking for opreator feedback. 

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA 4.6.0 released. Detail [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/4.6.0)
- UAA Docs are live @ http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/uaa/index.html
- In Progress
  - Performance & Scaling Metrics
  - Multifactor Auth with Google Authenticator
  - Read Only Mode for UAA API

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Working on support for service brokers that use Credhub to store service bindings and service keys
- Working on scripts to provide BBR functionality for CCDB

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney
- Designed a number of CC API endpoint options for service instance sharing and discussing with CAPI team which one to proceed with
- Changed service broker catalog validation logic to stop requiring `"type": "object"` and `$schema` fields to improve support for service authors wanting to use draft 6 of JSON schema (instead of the recommended draft 4)
- Added a `context` object to the request made to service brokers to create new service bindings (contains platform-specific information - `space_guid` and `organization_guid`)
- Updated CC API documentation to include [schemas](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cloud_controller_ng/pull/890) changes

### Permissions - Chris Brown

* Added a feature flag to CC which causes it to use perm
* Send all of the new role assignments to perm (un-assignments not done yet!)
* Investigated the `cf-mgmt` tool which customers are using at the moment

Next steps:

* Send all un-assignments to perm too
* Persist the assignments in perm
* Migrate existing assignments to perm in the background

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Working on a technical design document for polyglot service discovery
- Spike on using BOSH DNS for service discovery
- Added support for rootless mode and completed transitioning tests to use the CLI instead of plugin

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
