# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-12-13

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

### Holiday meeting

- Resolved to cancel Dec 26 in-person meeting

### proposal for broader permissions in CF GitHub orgs

- see cf-dev thread for context: https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/g/cf-dev/topic/7431333
- discussion takeaway: Runtime PMs present are generally receptive as long as it safely reduces barriers to cross-team collaboration


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Closed app manifest simplification survey with 135 responses. Preparing analysis and plan of action to share with CF community.
- Preparing to release cf CLI 6.33.1 ([Tracker release marker](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/153495841)):
  - Fixes two regressions from release 6.33.0, adds support for symlinks in app files for v2-push.
- Merged SAPI PRs for `share-service` and `unshare-service` commands; awaiting CAPI release that supports the relevant APIs
- Made decision on how we'll make "v3" app commands the default: we'll detect the user's CC version and execute commands as v2 or v3 as appropriate; continuing our exploration for how to implement
- Features starting soon:
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - Make `v2-push` the default `push`
- Further out:
  - Droplet upload
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Long-running healthchecks and Envoy run in sidecar containers
- Emitting more errors to app log stream from failed container creation and download and upload errors
- Locket emits periodic metrics about its queries to the SQL DB
- BBS emits periodic metrics about task counts, tagged per cell ID
- Finished exploring upgrade testing approaches without classic manifests, starting v2 of DUSTs soon
- Fixing regression in staging images from some Docker registries (Nexus v3)


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* investigating a bug with DNS caching in Windows

#### `etcd-release`
* no changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* minimal vSphere support added
* Azure LB support completed
* AWS isolation segment workflow published
* Coming up: investigating if any IaaS paving could be done to support CFCR and concourse-deployment

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

- [v8.5.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v8.5.0) adds support for strict SNI checking for inbound requests.

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

- v36.11.0 will update to more recent versions of dependencies (MariaDB, xtrabackup).
  - Will also allow rotation of pre-seeded passwords. **Note** that using this feature will cause downtime as deployed.
  - Updating a default to better enable the bootstrap procedure.
  
### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Testing migration and cross talk for syslog drains of cf-r->cf-d migration
- Finishing up a noisy neighbor nozzle (nnn) for operators
- Finsihing up a [syslog-drain cli](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/cf-syslog-cli).
- [Containerized Loggregator](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/loggregator-k8s-deployment) and added Fluentd Colection.


### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- Performance metrics gathering for UAA on 1, 2, and 4 VMs instances has been completed. Documentation is being prepared to publish performance results.
- Multifactor authentication is implemented for users registering and authenticating with Google Authenticator. Currently in progress to close endpoints that would previously login users automatically without prompting for MFA.
- BBR and BPM tweaks were released in UAA 4.8.0 for the BBR and BPM features included in 4.7.0.

### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Completing named services bindings
- Investigating server side app manifests
- Kicked off Zero Downtime app deployments Engineering research effort
- Pairing with Permissions to integrated AuthZ checks

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney
- v1 of service instance sharing is complete with all known edge cases taken care of (PRs pending)
- CLI work for cf v3-unshare-service is complete (PR pending)
- Preparation begun for the next feature; fetching service instances and service bindings from service brokers

### Permissions - Christopher Brown

- Started to cross team pair with CAPI to integrate the checking of permissions
  against Perm into the Cloud Controller.
- This freed an engineer to work on other epics like:
  - audit logging
  - metrics
  - role migration from Cloud Controller

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Continuing to work on phase 0 for service discovery - added metrics for different components
- Next we will add logs for service discovery components

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - V3 app features (multi-process, multi-buildpack) exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0)
|| - cf-deployment GA; Started two-month deprecation period for cf-release ([announcement](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/g/cf-dev/message/7535))
||
*Soon* | - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
