# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-07-26

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion
- Proposal to develop & maintain a PMC/CFF-wide high-level roadmap to improve transparency and give each other and CF Community a quick overview of what we're working on, what we are expecting. See appendix. [Dies Köper]


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.29.0, exposing org default isolation segments. ([Release notes here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.29.0)).
- Change from previously shared plan:
  - New milestone to complete (or at least spike on) v3 app commands to allow CAPI to GA the V3 API with more confidence.
  - Next release to make production ready the V3 commands, fleshed out UX, etc. for CF community to start trying out. Zach & Mike to work on documentation explaining newly enabled workflows.
- Subsequent releases adding features to `login`, such as displaying the last login time, as well as incorporating container to container networking commands (now in plugin).

### Garden - Julz Friedman

- OCI Track
  - Good progress on phase one (using layers to make performance better / avoid stream-in without any UX changes), PRs made to capi and diego and basic flow starting to come together.
  - Built simple tooling and dashboard to measure current performance ready to compare against new flow
  - Looking forward: after phase one is complete, phase two is to benchmark performance of larger-scale changes to quantify value of future work (so phase three may or may not happen, based on results of phase two)
- Rootless RunC Track
  - Final stories from this track now being completed, including properly limiting device access in rootless containers.
  - Looking forward: considering what steps remain for us to feel confident turning rootless mode on in production
- Garden-on-windows
  - Various changes to enable the garden-windows team to reuse guardian on windows
  - Now possible to run guardian on windows as well as linux. On linux, guardian uses `runc` to run containers, on windows the garden-windows team have written a `winc` binary that uses windows API to create and run containers. This allow lots of nice code sharing between garden and linux and ensures a much more consistent experience for platform users.
- Other Stuff
  - Investigating being able to work with hardened-umask stemcells
  - Better behaviour for reconnecting to containers over garden restart

### GrootFS - George Lestaris
- [GrootFS 0.21.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/grootfs-release/releases/tag/v0.21.0) is now on 100% of cells in PWS, along with [GrootFS Diagnostics 0.2.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/grootfs-diagnostics-release/releases/tag/v0.2.0)
  - GrootFS Diagnostics is a new BOSH release to aid D-state detection:
    - detects persistent D-state when it occurs
    - collects logs related to D-state processes
    - raises alerts via Datadog and our [Lakitu pipeline](https://concourse.lakitu.cf-app.com/teams/cf-grootfs/pipelines/grootfs-diagnostics)
    - ships logs off affected cells to a secure S3 bucket for further analysis by the team
    - blog post in collaboration with CloudOps coming soon
  - So far, the persistent D-state issue we saw on the first PWS rollout has **not** recurred
    - We are, however, seeing the odd case where `monit` enters D-state for > 120s, before recovering. It's not clear why
  - Attempts to [reproduce and understand persistent D-state](https://docs.google.com/a/pivotal.io/document/d/1epMKlSKSqRybS4vHssCctEPhZJF4TWpexamv5nadkoo/edit?usp=sharing) continue
- Investigation continues into [performance spikes in PWS](https://docs.google.com/a/pivotal.io/document/d/1xRX0lW3zzHJisZlAJ_70yYR1LRiUAYS_5DXVlxI-GiY/edit?usp=sharing) and Vizzini test environments
  - spikes seem to be split between cases where GrootFS is the majority of time, and Guardian is taking the majority of time
- Support added for rootless `stats` and `create` with quotas on Overlay+XFS

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- Have successfully cf-pushed a .NET application to a Windows 2016 container using the Buildpack App Lifecycle.
- `winc` can create host container port mappings for Windows Server Containers
- Updated to use runtime spec 1.0.0-rc6.
- Enabled Diego app healthcheck on Win 2016.
- Built CF rootfs based on Microsoft-provided Windows Server Core base container image.
- Enabled configurable max process count for an IronFrame container on 2012R2.
- Windows 2016 containers respect application memory limits.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished other logging and crash-reason refinements for healthchecks
- Added endpoint to BBS API for stream of Task events, corresponding cfdot command
- Improved resilience of locket servers and clients to errors from updates of HA cf-mysql cluster
- Started initial spikes on supporting zero-downtime app updates
- Revised AWS bootstrap directions to be compatible with cf-mysql-deployment
- BBS and auctioneer can opt into the v2 Loggregator API
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Work with Routing on routing integrity and availability improvements
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- Golang 1.9

#### `etcd-release`
- Some pull requests for Kubo
- Golang 1.9

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- Jumpboxes can be destroyed
- Our BOSH uses IAM profile instead of credentials (AWS specific)
- testing new mockups around declarative customization, adapting to existing network layouts
- designing database, blob store provisioning

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Merged PRs to enable faster compilation

#### `cf-deployment`
- Started work on `uptimer`
  - Runs a series of uptime tests while it performs some user-defined task (most commonly a BOSH deploy)
  - Validates HTTP uptime, log uptime (both HTTP and Websocket connections), and ability to `cf push`
  - Currently running in our upgrade and migration pipelines for cf-deployment
- Windows releases and stemcells are automatically updated in `windows-cell.yml`
- cf-deloyment-concourse-tasks
  - `bosh-deploy-with-created-release` has an interface for bumping submodules in releases
  - `bosh-deploy` has an interface for using uptimer as part of the deploy

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Ruby assets vendor gems
- Ruby assets have updated Rack gem
- All timeouts are measured in seconds


#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No updates

#### `nats-release`
- Merged PRs to enable faster compilation
- Updated golang version

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
User can now optionally:
- enable SSL connection for client/server communications
- authenticate using SSL client certificates

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks
Released v8.3.0 with a bunch of new features:
- HTTP Host Headers are now logged
- Improved link support on TCP backends
- Multi-core support for HAProxy
- Generic whitelist/blacklist support for all traffic (separate from the internal-only domain filtering)
- Customizable load balancing algorithm on TCP backends
- Tunable request buffer size to support installations which need larger HTTP request support
- HTTP Health check pages to adverstise the health of backends

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- No updates.
- Minor improvements to [cf-mysql-deployment](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-deployment) post v36, which dropped `spiff` support.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

* Loggregator API V2 Product Test
* Configurable Cipher Suite Improvements
* Capacity Planning Tests 
* New Feature Proposals on [cf-dev](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/thread/TZTZZF4PRZF36NUUBHPQMQUHEURANRQS/)

### UAA - Sree Tummidi


- UAA 4.5.0 Released. Support for JWT Token Exchange (7523), JDK Update, thirdparty jar updates
- In Progress
  - PR's
  - Update UAA docs on docs.cloudfoundry.org
  
### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Wrapping up secure diego <-> cc communication work
  - Announcement to begin migration will go out when CF v269 is released
- Continued track to GA V3 API
  - Planning to GA on 8/4
- Adding support for multiple buildpacks
- Adding orphan blob cleanup

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- Recently cut nfs-volume-release v1.0.6 which adds *nearly* seamless docker support for nfs.
- Plugging along on Container Storage Interface POC integration into CF
- adding grpc support to ifrit

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Release 1.3.0 will be cut shortly which has initial support for augmented logging for ASG and c2c traffic 
- Working with the CLI team on getting the policy configuration commands into the CF CLI
- The team is working on completing the support for port ranges and will be doing some performance analysis on the impact of enabling logging

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- implemented the workflows of CC to Bits integration (and vice versa, see e.g. https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1ByN2QNSln-lYZUHeAZ0y-owD2JtpBvyCp_H8T_hbCLg/edit)
- various smaller bug fixes 
- migrated our pipeline environments to a different DC
- starting on MTLS and cf-deployment integration next so we can make bits-service packages endpoint default

---
## Appendix
### CF Roadmap Proposal - Dies
I want to propose we develop & maintain a PMC/CF-wide high-level roadmap to improve transparency and give each other and CF Community a quick overview of what we're working on, what we are expecting. Example:

When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - DEA end of life
|| - Isolation segments for both compute and routing
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
||
|| **cf-release EOF** (2 months after GA):
|| - No more releases of cf-release
|| - Any new CF features available only in cf-deployment
||
|| - Multi-factor authentication in cf CLI
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - V3 app features (multiple processes, rollback)
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Container to container networking exposed in CLI
|| - Multiple buildpacks per app
||
*Future* | - .NET support on Windows Server 2016
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*

*Notes:*
- Nothing in here binds us, no commitments on if and when anything will end up being delivered
- No dates intentional. I see "Soon" as MVP in users' hands in 2-3 months, "Next" a bit further out, "Future" so far out your guess is as good as mine.
- Include only "high level" features
- Include hyperlinks to proposals, tracker marker, etc. for people to find more info
- Expectation PMs update every few months or so
- Open to different formats, suggestions where to host (final goal is to be on CFF site)
