# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-08-23

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.29.1, resolving two reported minor regressions (in `api` and `auth`) and improved prevention of corrupting local config.json. ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.29.1)).
- Nearing release exposing experimental v3 app commands for community feedback. Based on GA'ed CC API.  ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/149541909)).
  - Expecting another release to follow applying user feedback, as well as taking advantage of API improvements CAPI is making post-GA.
  - Reaching out to original `cf ssh` developer to help us understand the `ssh` code so we can refactor it and make it work for V3 app processes.
- Completed cross-pairing with Container Networking. Reviewing PR that brings in the 3 network plugin commands.
- Progress on `push` refactor. Left to do are app manifest inheritance and route support.
  - Service bindings in manifest delivered
  - Refactoring `create-route` in parallel to speed up manifest route support work
- Various features pending the groundwork on v2-push and V3 commands above: Docker image support in manifest, droplet upload, ...
- Also planning:
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - Displaying last login time on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

* Psst couple of weeks:
  - We cut v0.25.0 with two security fixes.
  - We finished v0.26.0 (we will cut it tomorrow). It includes features that help Garden work with OCI Images (OCI Buildpacks narrative).
  - We submitted a couple PRs to the CFF Docs in order to properly introduce and discuss GrootFS.
* Next couple of weeks:
  - Starting work on cache management soon (late this week or next week).
  - Wrapping up rootless work (one story to go) for the Overlay-XFS driver.

### Greenhouse - Colin Jackson
  - Ran 115 instances of the Nora testing app on a single Windows 2016 Diego cell
  - Finished the parity work between 2012R2 and 2016, meaning that everything the old Garden-Windows release did, now winc does in its place
  - garden-runc on Windows limits disk and memory limits, and CPU share allocation is underway
  - Apps can be pushed to the windows2016 stack with a buildpack git url
  - Application security groups have been implemented for 2016


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Exploring BBS benchmark performance with LRP update API spike code
- Starting work to run Envoy proxy sidecars in support of routing integrity
- Diego final releases now use SHA256 to checksum jobs and packages
- Minor additions to de-Consuling configuration
- Minor improvements in clean-up of ActualLRPs stranded during evacuation
- Upcoming:
  - Work with Routing on routing integrity and availability improvements
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Released [v20](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases):
  - Upgraded PostgreSQL to version 9.6.4.  
    This drops support for upgrading from PostgreSQL 9.4.9.  
    Only upgrades from PostgreSQL 9.6.2 and 9.6.3 are supported.  
  - Deprecated `databases.databases[n].run_on_every_startup` property which will be removed in a future release.
  - It will be bumped soon in cf
- We plan to also deprecate 32 bit support

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Mutual TLS w/CC 
- Internal communication w/UAA
- Benchmarking [Capacity Planning results](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1c0wmOoH0ZZ8CO1M0WzZOPWaZA0kVj4GcWbF6nrxGcGY/edit#) with pre-gRPC loggregator. 
- Scalable syslog bug fixes
 - RFC 5424 timestamp compliance
 - LGR disconnect messages
 - Missing source instance index
- Start/ Stop - getting Scalable Syslog onto cf-release
- Inception for Custom App Metrics didn't take flight
- Researching - [Developer Segmented Firehose](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1z5aVaUn0J3sG3q5tGB1viDxAF70HZ1BYnF9vUe-c0j4/edit)


### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- The team continues to work on getting into the CF CLI and completing support for BBR
- In addition, we are conducting spikes and investigations to build platform service discovery for container networking, and integrating this solution with Istio

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
