# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-09-05

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Proposal to move CF networking project from incubation status to active status. Details [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ohn9AS7Wic_ZQ1vwPFYCxa6IH1gsJwgOm7c48tIzoSU/edit?usp=sharing)


## Discussion
- Proposal to develop & maintain a PMC/CFF-wide high-level feature roadmap to improve transparency and give CF Community a quick overview of what we're working on, what they can expect. See [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#). [Dies Köper]

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.30.0, exposing policy management commands for direct network traffic between apps. Most work was done by the Container Networking team. ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.30.0)).
- Released cf CLI 6.29.2, resolving regressions in `auth` and `ssh-code` in 6.29.1 caused by confusion which exposed endpoints to use. ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.29.2)).
- Work on two parallel tracks - not sure yet which will be released first:
  - App manifest support for Docker apps. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/150627476)).
  - Exposing experimental v3 app commands for community feedback. Based on GA'ed CC API and includes multiple buildpack support. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/149541909))
    - Expecting subsequent releases to apply user feedback, as well as taking advantage of post-GA API improvements.
    - Pairing with original `cf ssh` developer to help us understand the `ssh` code and refactor it for use with V3 app processes.
- Progress on `push` refactor: app manifest inheritance and route support left
  - Refactoring `create-route` in parallel to speed up manifest route support work
- Also planning:
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Droplet upload
  - Service instance sharing
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman

 - OCI mode "Phase One" (i.e. using layered filesystem instead of StreamIn)
   - Working end-to-end apart from final features from GrootFS, hope to be able to start testing this in real environments soon

- Rootless Mode (i.e. garden does not run as root and therefore a garden exploit does not buy you host root priviledges)
   - Largely complete, making final preparations to have this turned on in a subset of PWS
   - Upshot: need to disable privileged containers, since with rootless mode turned on privileged containers cannot be created
     - Writing note to send to cf-dev about this, tl;dr: we will need to start recommending any remaining privileged containers are migrated in readiness for making Rootless the default

- Sidecar Proposal (i.e. ability to create container processes that have their own root filesystem but share networks)
   - Needed by Envoy proxies and useful for healthcheck containers etc
   - Share same network as outer container, but own root filesystem
   - Should be quite easy to do given guardian's underlying implementation, will create a proposal for this and circulate with windows team to ensure we can do it on both platforms
   
- Upcoming
   - OCI Phase 2 (Experiment to determine performance impact of using OCI Images to allow custom root filesystems for buildpacks) 
   - Sidecars


### GrootFS - George Lestaris

* Past couple of weeks:
  - Still wrapping up the rootless track. One story to go. We realised that dealing with sufficiently complex Docker images (such as `ubuntu`) is not very easy when running GrootFS as a non-root user.
  - Added retry logic for Docker fetches.
  - The team has been busy chasing CI flakes.
  - Still, haven't cut v0.26.0 as some OCI image features got delayed due to some PRs against our main [dependency](https://github.com/containers/image) not being merged on time.
  - We wrote some docs to introduce GrootFS: http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/architecture/garden.html and http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/concepts/container-security.html#security.
* Next couple of weeks:
  - Still trying to start the GC track. Currently the second story in the backlog.
  - We had a broad discussion about security and performance and new learnings we could apply to make sure we don't have any loose ends. We will work on some stories (or chores) in this area in the next month or so.

### Greenhouse - Colin Jackson
- Container NICs now configurable with MTU, and default to host MTU (requirement for GCP external network compatibility)
- 2016 cells limit CPU usage per-container
- Confirmed Windows Server Containers can share namespaces
- hwc supports URL rewrite, specified in .NET web.config

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished initial exploration of BBS benchmark performance with LRP update API spike code
- Finished first story to run Envoy proxy sidecars in support of routing integrity
- Declared Locket fully supported, no longer experimental
- Deploying BOSH DNS to CI to replace Consul for service discovery
- Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
- Upcoming:
  - Start implementing APIs for rolling updates of LRPs
  - Investigate rebalancing strategies for "boulder" app instance placement

### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Includes a runtime-config for colocated a syslog-forwarder from [syslog-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/syslog-release).
  This should be used in place of the syslog functionality provided by metron, which will be deprecated soon.

#### `cf-deployment`
- Uses IaaS-agnostic VM types
- New experimental ops-file for deploying the bits service
- Migration from cf-release
  - Vars-store extractor updated to be compatible with deployments that include Locket
  - Downtime during the transition is entirely accounted for -- that is,
    any downtime left during the migration from cf-release to cf-deployment
    mirrors known or acceptable errors which are already present in a stemcell roll of cf-release or cf-deployment

#### `uptimer`
- Improved to handle edge cases better
- Can be configured with a failure threshold -- how many failed requests are allowed before the test fails

#### cf-deployment-concourse-tasks
- Tasks are now compatible with `bbl up --credub`. Specifically, the tasks may be configured with IaaS credentials, so that `bbl` operators still work when CredHub is deployed

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Work in progress to replace Dora with a compiled go app to circumvent flakiness with Ruby apps
  - It's worth mentioning that most users don't experience this flakiness. It's actually very uncommon, but CATs pushes so many apps that it often runs into the issue.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Allows users to specify a windows stack, to allow testing against the new windows2016 stack

#### `nats-release`
- No update

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- No update this week; patch release coming soon

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- CF CLI now supports networking policy commands. See Dies update above for more details
- BBR work was completed last week
- The team investigated platform service discovery and will be incepting on it this week

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

* successfully adopted cf-deployment for bits-service 
* migrated all bits-service Softlayer & AWS pipelines to cf-deployment
* finalizing last stories for copying packages use-case, after that package endpoint can be made default
