# Runtime PMC Meeting 2017-05-16

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
The CLI team proposes to move the Diego-Enabler plugin to the attic at the same time the DEAs reach EOL:
- https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/Diego-Enabler

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Plan for cf CLI with DEA phase-out documented in [release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/140879877).
- Nearing completion of release focusing on UX improvements and bug fixes around plugin installation and management.
  - Rebranding the plugins.cloudfoundry.org site: updating the logo, aligning with www.cloudfoundry.org styling.
- Progressing on v2 push refactor, target of private docker registry and droplet upload support.
- Upcoming releases focus on catch-up with CC/UAA exposed functionality (space scoped staging application security groups, org default isolation segments, last login time, private docker registry and droplet upload support).
  - Completed refactor of application security group (ASG) related commands that we're enhancing in the next release to expose space scoped staging ASGs. Refactor of `login` next.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Started work with Greenhouse team on allowing garden-runc to run on Windows (with a custom windows OCI runner provided by the greenhouse team). 
- First spike on using filesystem layers to improve buildpack flow performance in flight!
- GRR v1.7.0 and v1.6.0 releases allowing logging UDP/ICMP packets and user/password authentication for docker repos when using built-in legacy rootfs management component (plus some general bug fixes)
- Next: major focus is on completing first pass of using-filesystem-layers-to-improve-system-performance work, alongside helping greenhouse to port over to windows and general support work.

### GrootFS - George Lestaris

- Released [v0.18.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/grootfs-release/releases/tag/v0.18.0) and [v0.19.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/grootfs-release/releases/tag/v0.19.0) since last update.
  - v0.18.0 makes JSON output the only option for the `grootfs create` operation.
  - v0.19.0 adds new mount options by default (in XFS) and introduces massive performance gains in concurrent operations (locking strategy got reworked).
- GrootFS is still not recommended for production CF Deployments due to an issue with unrecoverable user processes (D-state).
  - The team is looking into it.
  - We are putting more tracing in place.
  - We are offering the option to use an external device for XFS journal logs. Linux stack traces suggest that D-state processes were blocked in the XFS kernel code when trying to allocate space to write the XFS journal logs.
- Still looking into the unpack spikes that were initially observed in Diego's CI environments.
  - The team is trying to reproduce.

### Greenhouse - A William Martin

- Worked with Garden on "winC" container plugin. ^^^
- Successfully can create containers with Microsoft's HCS API layer on Windows Server 2016.
- Starting to dedicate engineers to Garden-Windows and BOSH-Windows.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Reverted diego-release to Golang 1.7.4 after seeing issues with auctioneer-rep state requests at scale
- Starting experiments to validate proposed work around healthcheck stability
- Added better metrics for local route-emitters' HTTP and TCP route-registrations
- Unhealthy cells respond to state request with 503 status code and latest state instead of brutal 500
- Investigated performance differences between BBS benchmarks on AWS and GCP: will add server-side filtering by cell-ID to event stream, then investigate impact of locket-maintained cell registrations
- Upcoming:
  - Continuing with v2 Loggregator API support across Diego components
  - Support CAPI in performing zero-downtime app updates
  - Adding cfdot commands for locket API


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- removed references to old (~1mo old!) monolithic links for consul
- Fixing an issue with gossip port being closed on windows consul

#### `etcd-release`
- Golang port of initialiazation scripts near-complete

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- Began work on jumpbox support
- Developing migration features for BBL 4.0: import of v3 cloudformation stack into terraform
- Azure in discovery phase

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Default backend is Diego
- Test against m4 and c4 instance types on AWS

#### `cf-deployment`
- cf-release migration
  - CI'ing a more "prod-like" environment. Specifically, uses external datastores rather than internal databases and blobstores
  - Fixes to vars-store tooling
- Local HTTP route emitters used in cf-deployment
- Ops-files
  - Update to `use-compiled-releases.yml` to include pre-compiled capi-release
  - Update to `tcp-routing-gcp.yml` to use default port (80) for TCP router health checks
  - New ops-file for using latest stemcell
  - New ops-file for using S3 as a blobstore
  - New ops-file for using external databases
  - Experimental ops-file for deploying local TCP route emitters
  - Experimental ops-file for using the Loggregator V2 API
  - Experimental ops-file for bypassing CC Bridge

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- bosh-cleanup task allows the Concourse user to provide `CLEAN_ALL: true`
  to run `bosh clean-up --all`
- bosh-deploy allows users to provide a `-l` flag for loading (rather that loading-or-generating) credentials

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Golang assets always use latest Golang version included in the buildpack (PR)
- New test for private Docker registries (PR)

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Update Rack version for Ruby assets

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
- v35 has been released, which includes BOSH links for cf-deployment.
  - v35 requires `routing-release` now.
- Now working on v36, which includes security and tuning improvements.
  - v36 will work using BOSH 2.0-style manifest generation only.

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Bugs and chores
- Finishing touches on the scalable syslog release
- Revisiting feedback from Diego on Loggregator API v2
- Improving drain functionality during an ugprade
- Upcoming
 - Reaching out to more teams about Loggregator API v2
 - Drain and Die of components
 - Research on new feature narratives

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- UAA [4.0.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa-release/releases/tag/v36) Released. Breaking changes with client auth redirect uri and other client validations in manifest. Please refer to the release notes.
 - UAA user commands updated to support origin. This allows user management accross various external providers
- In Progress
  - Performance benchmarking
  - Token Exchange , JWT Bearer (RFC 7523)
  - Account Linking
   

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Wrapping up secure diego <-> cc communication work
  - Rolled out to PWS.
    - Two issues discovered and being worked on.
  - Will make documentation avaialble after PWS feedback
- Continued track to GA V3 API
- Completed support for private docker registries
- Added supprot for OSBAPI API 2.11 - bindable available on plans
- Added reference implementation for OSBAPI [platform context proposal](https://github.com/duglin/servicebroker/blob/CFisms/spec.md)

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- most of the persi team has been out for all or part of the past 2 weeks, so as promised last time, we don't have much to report this time.
- first run-through of EMC Elastic Cloud Storage + volume services is working in manual testing.  We have more work to do to get it running end-to-end in the pipeline and properly handling all the various day 2 and teardown scenarios, but it looks like that should be just work.
- Second public draft of the Container Storage Interface proposal (v0.1) is [available here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JMNVNP-ZHz8cGlnqckOnpJmHF-DNY7IYP-Di7iuVhQI/edit)  Once this starts to stabilize, Persi will pick it up and start implementing experimental support for it in volman.
### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- various config cleanups to allow cleaner deployments alongside cloud controller 
- finished "rolling migration" tests (from non-bits-service-cf to bits-service-cf) successfully 
- Implemented resource limits in the bits-service 
- worked out the workflows of CC to Bits integration (and vice versa, see e.g. https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1ByN2QNSln-lYZUHeAZ0y-owD2JtpBvyCp_H8T_hbCLg/edit), about to start implementing the stories for this direction 
