# CF Extensions PMC Notes

*Chat room:* go to [slack.cloudfoundry.org](https://slack.cloudfoundry.org) and then join the `#cf-extensions` channel

## Zoom info

- *Meeting ID:* 559 273 7187
- *PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android:* [https://zoom.us/j/5592737187](https://zoom.us/j/5592737187)
- *iPhone one-tap: US:* +16699006833,,5592737187#  or +16465588656,,5592737187# 
- *Telephone:* US: +1 669 900 6833  or +1 646 558 8656 
- *International numbers:* https://zoom.us/zoomconference?m=92A2yi2UMG55h6OWMvp7GsxQKIou0L3E

## New business

[add here]

# Projects

## _Incubating_

### App AutoScaler (Bo Yang)

- added built-in model for autoscaler besides deploying as a CF service
- Optimized database read/write perofrmance and improved scalability for metrics collection and event generator
- added deployment manifest for density deployment and deployment on Kubeternetes
- prototyped custom metrics support (introduced new component metrics forwarder)

### BBR (Therese and George)

- **[BBR v1.2.6](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/bosh-backup-and-restore/releases/tag/v1.2.6)** can access BOSH Directors behind SOCKS5 proxies.
- **Support for GCS-backed External Blobstores:** We finished and release most of the work for the GCS blobstore support as part of [SDK v1.9.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/backup-and-restore-sdk-release/releases/tag/v1.9.0). However, we realised that we have to rethink how to B+R GCS-backed blobstores because of the way object retention policy works in GCS. This feature is not ready for consumption.
- **Reduce Blobstore Backup Impact:** We started spiking on solutions for reducing the blobstore backup impact. Our focus is to reduce disk space requirements for the backup artifacts while keeping API downtime minimal. We are mostly looking at internal (WebDAV) blobstores.

### Buildpacks (Stephen)

[add here]

### CF Abacus (Hristo and Martina)

- added metrics module (counter & gauge) for custom metrics
- implemented golang CLI for access to metrics
- exponential backoff of docs via RabbitMQ dead-letter queues
- reduced the load from healthchecker calls

### CredHub & CLI (Colin)

[add here]

### CFCR (aka Kubo) (Sean O'Sullivan, Pivotal)

[add here]

### Service Fabrik (Ashish)

- Credhub integration to support secure credentials store for backing services
- Service Fabrik HA/nZDM/Multi-AZ on Google Cloud Platform
- SF 2.0 Backup manager implementation completed and released

### CF Local (Stephen)

[add here]

### CF Dev (Stephen)

[add here]

### Stratos (Neil)

- Version 2.0.0 released end of last week
- Catching up reviewing and merging outstanding PRs
- Continuing to improve e2e and unit tests
- Refining SSO support

### MultiApps (Nikolay)

- We are doing some refactorings in order to enable parallel processing of all artifacts (like apps and services) without dependencies. This would decrease significantly the deployment times.
- We did a PoC on deployment to K8s of an application modelled using the MultiApp model. Having almost the same descriptor you could deploy to K8s. This is technically realized via translation of the descriptor to K8s resource yaml files + helm chart metadata. Then using the helm client we trigger the very release deployment.
- We are working on a github.io page of the project. Would be grateful if you could share any guidance or recommendations here. What works, what not, what is important to include there, etc.?

### Project Blockheads
- fixes and improvements to the ruby version
- ground up go implementation under way
- need Pivotal tracker access 
- blobstore access for created bosh release

## _Under Review_

### CF-Extensions & Bot (Max)
- No updates

### CF-Scheduler (Scott)

[add here]

## _Misc_

### SuSe Stemcell (?)
### MS SQL Server Broker (Jared, ?)
