# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-08-11

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
* None

## Backlog Reviews

### Diego - Eric Malm
* Continuing work on BBS server layer, almost done having the data access there in favor of protobufs
* Working on security related stories, enabling mutual ssl authentication for Diego's etcd cluster
* Working on same for the consul cluster
* Scoped some stories for encrypting data at rest in etcd
* Got clarification in terms of longer term performance targets for Diego
* 1000 cells, 200k apps, 250k app instances as the target
* planning on inception today to plan that out and how to make progress on them along side the versioning work
* if you're getting weird numbers on disk usage from garden, this has been fixed.

### Routing - Shannon Coen
* submitted first pr to lattice for tcp support, allows someone using the receptor api to make changes needed for tcp router
* scoping work necessary to support tcp routing in cloud foundry, requires changes in cloud controller and cf cli.
* continuing to add support for route services in gorouter and routing api, working on speccing out support in cloud controller.
Question from Chip: How's the work going with the team split between San Ramon and San Francisco,
Shannon: Going well, Atul and Fermin come in two days a week. The work on tcp is shared among the team.

### Mega - Amit Gupta
* Finished track of work on etcd testing/stress testing. Now have a pipeline to deploy etcd, scale up, scale down, rolling deploy.
* Now using turbulence release with that, to kill nodes and bring them back up to see if they still work.
* Working on open sourcing the pipelines, how we deploy environments, deploy bosh, deploy releases.
*Michael: who's going to consume the etcd release
* Amit: etcd is submoduled in to cf-release.  will work with Diego after versioning, performance work is complete to consume it.
* Shannon: Assuming the routing api continues to use etcd, they'll want to consume the etcd release
* Michael: what's the future state? everyone submodules in?
* Amit: working on tooling for manifests for composeable releases, working on a proposal to be shared with the community

### LAMB - Erik Jasiak
* Finished first pass of pipeline changes, started LATS (loggregator acceptance tests), hope to drive out bugs that previously were only discovered on a1
* Fixed millisecond delay for buffering messages, made buffer size (number of lines) configurable for doppler
* Will announce this change to the community with cf-release 215.
* several PR's merged from IBM
* working on closing out on nozzles to continue move towards retire collector, making sure the varz nozzles are consistent and expected
* ongoing documenting of metrics, what's coming out of collector, the firehose, what data is coming from where

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
* Released UAA 2.5.1, multi-tenancy scim groups, external group mappings
* See release notes
* working on bosh release for UAA, almost done, plan to put on bosh.io
* added support for ssl configuration
* cleaned up the spec properties
* looking into log rotation issues with uaa, logs not getting archived, not following bosh naming convention for logs and size of logs
* new stream of work around saml integration

Chip: Financial services companies meeting, would like a service that looks like UAA for use by developers
Sree: UAA can be used UAA as a service already with the mutli-tenancy features, plan to improve documentation on how you can do your own service broker to expose UAA as a Service.

### Lattice - Marco Nicosia

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
* Simon from IBM has been pairing with Dieu as the first "PM Dojo" participant
* Private broker support continues
* Have been discussing the API design for service binding in v3
* Working toward CI of database migrations
* An initial v3 API styleguide has been drafted, still a few decisions being made before sharing the proposal
* Dieu has been working with Simon to identify a scope of work Simon and team can take on
* CC bridge now supports v3 apps
### Garden - Will Pragnell

### Greenhouse - Kim Johnson
