# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-08-11

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Proposal from IBM coming on blacklisting of service plans to be posted to cf-dev
* UAA/BOSH release repo now on bosh.io based on the latest UAA 2.6.1
* Proposal for changes to dropsonde messaging protocol to be posted to cf-dev
* What the procedures for bringing in nozzles contributed to cloud foundry with planned support by the LAMB team
** code contribution management
* Mega team has a new open mega-ci repo (full pipeline provisioning repo) and a cf-deployment repo (how to coordinate a unified deployment composed of multiple releases, uaa, diego, etcd, etc.)  

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell
* working on docker image support secure in garden, release marker is "a week out"
* will then look at open container initiative, what are first steps for including that in the garden project.
* looking at an implementation of ocf, which may happen to be runc

### Greenhouse - Kim Johnson
* Working on upgrades without down time
* looking at windows 2016

### Diego - Eric Malm
* progressing with bbs server layer versioning, on last story
* working on versioning and migrating the data stored in etcd
* performance - initial stories for benchmarks for known data hot spots at 200k apps scale
** re-running end to end test, starting 10 cell test, and then 100 cell test again.
* consul with mutual ssl auth, works, but making the operator experience better, rolling deploys.
* continuing to address small parity concerns, ran cats that defaults to diego backend, some PRs to CATs and cf-release
* diego release no longer contains garden-linux release, now integrates against the separate release

### Routing - Shannon Coen
* wrapped up back-end support for route services, router support, api support, still pending investigation to honor standard custom headers
* xtp with CAPI on adding support in cloud controller
* tcp support work on lattice complete, prs accepted, likely available in lattice 0.4.0
* changing focus to adding tcp routing support in cloud foundry, starting with the routing api to support routing groups, initially a tcp routing group.
* will then work with CAPI on shared domains and tcp routes
* analyzing performance costs of supporting ssl in gorouter, and exploring alternatives for securing the connection between load balancer and gorouter, perhaps collocating haproxy with gorouter

### Mega - Amit Gupta
* wrapped up mvp of etcd-release
* working on mvp of cf-deployment, single repo that will coordinate manifest generation, composing multiple releases into a single deployment and the acceptance tests, incorporating that into the etcd release pipeline
* parallel a1 that integrates the final release of the etcd-pipeline and in future other pipeline's.
* tons of community and pipeline things

### LAMB - Erik Jasiak
* coming to the end of the road on datadog and varz nozzles in the last two weeks. 
* catching up with the community on nozzles and metrics
* will now be catching up with PRs and documentation
* finishing up the dojo with active state, one of them will remain as part of the team.

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
* bosh/uaa release!
* UAA 2.6.1 released, moved to Java 8, prs around openid connect
* issue with migration if users had never changed password
* bug around saml if you have similar identity providers
* focused on openid connect issues, hybrid flow
* continuing to work on saml and ldap invitation flow

### Lattice - Marco Nicosia


### CAPI - Dieu Cao
* Simon from IBM has continued pairing with Dieu as the first "PM Dojo" participant. Dojo complete this week.
* Private broker support continues
* Iterated on the style guide for v3. Working on cleaning up the style guide. Expect to post to cf-dev this week for wider feedback.
* Worked on breaking down stories for v3 milestone where cli could be updated to use the new v3 end points.
* Continued to work on staging for v3 apps on Diego.
* Reverted work done on dashboard clients for service instances.  Will postpone this work until after initial v3 milestone due to challenges in supporting synchronous and asynchronous responses and keeping uaa, ccdb, and service brokers in sync.

### CF Germany - Simon Moser
