# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-07-28

## Agenda
* Review Runtime team break up of responsibilities
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
* None

## Backlog Reviews

### Diego - Eric Malm
* versioning, new service layer in front of Diego internals, more flexibility in terms of migration, more than half-way done
  * intend to use this to resolve performance issues encountered during 100 cell experiment, due to bulk data being returned that was not necessary
   - Question from Chip about if there are risks above 100 that haven't been identified
   - Main performance issue that we've identified, efficiency of the bulk operations, once we made changes that we think should take us to 500 cells, and some additional refinement we should be able to get to 1000 cells
   - Michael Fraenkel says he's not convinced we can achieve the goals.
   - Many variables, how dense, work loads, memory footprint, etc? Is the point of contention the cells? or something else?
   - The contention is not in the number of cells, per Amit.  Amit gave a talk about 10k instance test.  Scheduling was not the problem, it was the bulk information, routing, syncing up with cc.
   - Michael is looking for 100k application instance performace at minimum.
   - Michael to communicate with Eric about the specific cell, instance, density criterion.
   - Question to IBM about whether there's capacity at IBM to do these larger experiments.
* Pulled in the latest garden changes, had been 2 months of work
  - much better support for docker images as apps on cf, honoring the user directives, instead of vcap
  - want to keep an eye on stability of garden-linux, now using btrfs

### Routing - Shannon Coen
 * over the last two weeks, limited in pairs, paused the tcp track, continued adding support for route services.  routing api supports it, with forwarding, and encyrpted header, next milestone to handle the forwarding of the request from the route service, 
 restarted tcp track, support in lattice, looking at high availability for tcp
 * starting work on routing bosh release, merging the two routing apis
 
### Mega - Amit Gupta
 * Lots of community issues/prs
* lots of build pipeline fixing
* extracting etcd release into a separate bosh-release, used by diego, cf-release, and lamb. worked on making etcd bosh friendly and scalable, consumable by any release needing etcd
* will start on extracting consul to a separate release
* working on building out and open sourcing all pipelines and improving documentation, cloud formation templates, open source templates to make it easy for anyone to setup an integration pipeline for cloud foundry
* can in future use this for stability, performance pipelines.

### LAMB - Erik Jasiak
* started 2 dojo-ers activestate
* focusing on surfacing lamb performance, lossiness, prior to bumping in to cf-release
* looking at retiring the collector, replacing varz with nozzles

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
* separate bosh release for UAA
* UAA 2.4.1 released: UAA DB housekeeping, password lockout policy per zone
* Working towards UAA 2.5.0 Release: Closing multi-tenancy gaps with SCIM Groups, bug fixes
* New tracks of work: Handling of SAML Claims in token, Support for inviting users in LDAP/SAML

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
* We incepted the CAPI team,
* Focusing on v3 work for Diego, intend to eventually take over ownership of cc bridge components
* Working on Private Brokers and Dashboard Clients per Instance.
* Simon will be dojo'ing as PM, looking at what tracks of work from the CAPI team make sense for him to PM.
 
### Garden - Will Pragnell

### Greenhouse - Kim Johnson
* Implementing CATS and DATS for Windows
* Improved security and isolation
