# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-10-06

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Propose change of Project Lead for Logging and Metrics from Erik Jasiak to Jim Campbell
* Propose change of Project Lead for Greenhouse from Kim Johnson to Steven Benario

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

### Greenhouse 

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Versioning and Migrations:
	- receptor removed from diego-release, now under Lattice team ownership
	- reworked staging response message format to be more suitable for CC v3 API
	- worked with Routing team to include Route Service URLs in Diego's CF Routes
	- released Diego 0.1434.0, confident about guaranteeing uptime from now on

- Performance:
	- tuning HTTP/TLS performance for communication with BBS, etcd
	- re-ran 10-cell end-to-end evaluation as warm-up exercise
	- started 100-cell/10K-instance evaluation
	- developing benchmarking suites and CI for bulk BBS retrieval operations

- Security:
	- upgraded diego-release to use golang 1.4.3

- SSH:
	- finished implementing new auth-code flow
	- released version 0.2.1 of the Diego-SSH CLI plugin, required for SSH access to 0.1434.0 and later

- Parity:
	- now providing `application_uris` and `uris` in `VCAP_APPLICATION` payload

### Routing - Shannon Coen

- work continues on support for route services in CC API
- wrapping up work to add support for tcp routing to routing api. we've made some changes to the api ux; next we'll update the endpoints for mgt of http routing (via gorouter).
- work has begun on adding support for tcp routing to CC API

### Mega - Amit Gupta
* Extracted `consul-release` from `cf-release`.
* Working on beefy tests for `consul-release`, very similar to what we did for `etcd-release`.
* Refined some of our AWS, BOSH, and Concourse bootstrap tooling.  In particular, it can now generate many credentials for you, simplifying the bootstrap experience for the new user.
* Finished improvements to docs for CF on BOSH-Lite, [docs.cloudfoundry.org](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org) is now the single source of truth.
* Nearly ready to deliver several stories about specifying URLs, local tarball paths, and local directory paths for releases and stemcells in BOSH deployment manifest, so you can just `bosh deploy` without creating, downloading, and uploading releases and stemcells.  Remaining work is just to optimize so that it skips doing the work for assets that the BOSH Director already has.
* New integration pipeline is recording blessed tuples of `cf-release` SHA, `etcd-release` final version, and AWS stemcell type and version.
* Bumped all the things to Golang 1.4 to address 1.3 CVE.
* Ongoing: community and pipelines.

### LAMD 
* Work on retiring Collector
  * Added etcd metrics
  * Added missing router metrics
  * varz shim removed
  * need final coordination with UAA that their metrics are upgraded to loggregator
  * leaves DEA and HM9000 metrics using Collector
* First pass on seperating out Loggregator to separate release
* Team back up to 2 pairs including IBM and HP devs
* Working on TCP transport Metron to Doppler

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- UAA Release 2.7.0.2 released. Contains the backwards compatibility fix for id_token and the ability to disable internal user management when LDAP/SAML stores are in use
- Work underway for UAA 2.7.1 release with complete support for the Invitations API
- Statsd support added for UAA metrics
- Started the UAA & SAML Integration work to handle User Claims and expose them in the ID_Token and support to map SAML Group memberships to OAuth Scopes

### Lattice - David Wadden

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
- Continued xtp with Routing on exposing Route Services in Cloud Controller
- Modified resource matching to allow file modes to be sent and respected on package creation in support of Diego
- Pulled in PRs for upgrading cloud controller to ruby 2.2.3
- Bumped Service Broker API to v2.7 to support Asynchronous Provisioning of services available in next cf-release
- Added indexes to the events table to improve performance of the /v2/events end point
- xtp with Diego to return all process type end points
- Completed spikes investigating documentation options for CAPI. Choosing to go with Slate due to the flexibility and ease it - provides.
- Completed adding user management by username endpoints
- Continued work on v3 and support for process types, will start on modifying v3 request/responses to represent lifecycles

### Flintstone - Simon Moser 

* Completed cloud controller port to ruby 2.2.3 (part of CF 219) 
* Completed Spike on porting cloud controller to jRuby. Performance tests started
* Started to onboard new team member Peter Goetz on 10/1. 
* Drove softlayer environement for concourse up to financial approval.


