# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-09-08

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Lattice PM is changing to David Wadden

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell
- The release marker for secure multi-tenant support is close!  Still need to fix up some logging, to not log user env vars
- started on the move toward the open container spec compatible version for Garden, getting involved with the community, github

### Greenhouse - Kim Johnson
- Will be ready for "production" use when Diego is
- just a few stories left

### Diego - Onsi Fakhouri
- Marching towards a 0.9 GA release
-- once that release hits, future releases should have no app down time, with sem ver rules.
-- should be at a point where all deployments can sideload Diego with no caveats about future app down time
- Reserving 1.0 is for getting to where Diego can replace DEAs for larger deployments
- Tracker says 1.5-2 weeks for the 0.9 release frame. (ruthlessly prioritizing stories)

- Question from Deepak- Huawei. Any timelines for 1.0?
-- Onsi - before the end of the year, specifically focused around scaling

### Routing - Shannon Coen
- Working on 3 tracks
- Route Services - insert a marketplace service into the application request path, xtp with CAPI to enable on cloud controller and will be sending a PR to cf cli
- Continued work on tcp routing, finished mvp for support for tcp routing in lattice
- Begun backend work to consolidate routing apis, the tcp routing api and http routing api
- Hope to soon begin work on tcp routing in cloud controller and the cf cli, a large amount of work
-- in support of this, will also be working on adding multiple container ports in cloud controller and the cf cli
- Also working on perf benchmarking around ssl support for gorouter, to terminate ssl at the gorouter, investigation is on-going.

### Mega - Amit Gupta
- Working on a lot of community PRs and mailing list questions
- Worked on extracting route registration, extracted into a single job that can be collocated with other things and can be configured in the manifest, this is still using NATS and will switch to using the routing-api when that is enabled by default.
- starting with uaa and hm9k, will then ask cc and loggregator components
- integration environment that integrates final releases of etcd and runtime-passed of cf-release
- integration pipeline will consume final releases from other teams
- upcoming work in bosh cli and director to allow specifying path to releases and stemcells in the deployment manifest
-- should eliminate the need to bosh upload release or bosh upload stemcell with the tooling the team is working on
- 216 was going to happen last week, but should be going out today.

- Matt Sykes, question about the tooling roadmap
- Amit will work on that
- Chip - what does the cloud ops team right now?
- Amit - They currently deploy and cut the release on PWS. Will change in the future.

### LAMB - Erik Jasiak
- Slow last couple of weeks, end of dojo, vacations
- lots of community PRs, bugs, questions, outreach
- push on documentation, some in readmes, some on official docs.cloudfoundry.org
- will be working with docs on fleshing out concepts, light weight docs, answering what is a nozzle, how does it work, collector status, metrics.
- Next big thing, proposal from Ben Black to change the dropsonde protocol to include the points data type
- Dieu - is it a backwards incompatible change?
- Erik - It's backward breaking because of compilation of a new file, but not backward incompatible with existing data types.

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### Lattice - ~~Marco Nicosia~~ David Wadden
- David W. should start attending this call going forward
- [Lattice v0.4.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice/releases/tag/v0.4.0) has been released.
  - Includes TCP Router!
  - Changes the way users download and deploy Lattice clusters.
  - Can use Amazon S3 as a durable, shared, droplet store.
  - Generated by [Concourse CI](http://concourse.ci/).
    - Got rid of `develop` branch, now all PRs simply go to `master`.
- SSH almost ready to go, then work on automating a private Docker registry.

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
- Decreased velocity due to burning man, vacations, and long running stories.
- Continued to work on staging v3 apps on Diego.  It's getting closer to done. Required much more refactoring work than initially planned.
- Shared [v3 style guide](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cc-api-v3-style-guide) with cf-dev and in the process of incorporating and responding to feedback 
- Met with cli team to discuss approach to getting to a point where all app related commands use v3 end points.  This will be a topic in the cli team's inception this week.
- [PR](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/100574190) to docs team to document how to use app usage events and service usage events, working on a blog post.
- Continued cross team pairing with the Routing team on Route Services stories (as part of CAPI charter to xtp with teams to enable features of the platform)
- The cc api docs have a new latest-release route so you can link to the latest version of any of the pages.  http://apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/latest-release
- Plan to deprecate v1 service brokers. Working on documentation on procedure required to migrate to v2.
- Adding an admin only endpoint to purge a specific service instance. [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/101738420)




