# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-12-01

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- David Wadden: Propose to shelf Lattice. No objections.
- Amit Gupta: Propose to split the mega team into two teams.
- Michael Fraenkel: Why split?
- Amit: to ease the context switching
- Amit: The split will just be considered internal structuring with one PM and will not be considered two separate foundation teams.

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux
- Question about allocation of ports happening on cf-dev
- Misc strategies being discussed
- Diego, Garden, Routing team to sync up about problems we're trying to mitigate. Eric to follow up on that.

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario
- Missing the meeting this week due to attending CF Summit Shanghai
- We've fixed the last of the DNS issues we were seeing in Windows Domain environments. Installing .NET support now adds localhost as the first DNS lookup so that we can find Consul as necessary, and moves all the existing DNS server entries down one notch.
- Made some improvements to our documentation, particularly as relating to our debugging tool, [Hakim](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/hakim).
- Completed set up of a new CI environment to keep us in sync with Diego's latest changes and ensure breaking changes in either direction do not go undetected.
- Added support for Metron TLS configuration.
- Forward: Continuing minor improvements to the current code (eg. debuggability, documentation, etc) and investigations for areas of improvement (eg. IIS native authentication, user certificates, etc)

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Bind-mounting buildpack downloads: just finished cacheddownloader story, about to start BBS/executor story
- Executor now does periodic health-check of garden, causes rep to opt out of the auction if it fails
- Reworking some executor internals to ensure that the rep can always respond to state requests quickly
- Route-emitter is more careful not to delete route-table data in its bulk-processing loop when the BBS tells it the desired state may be incomplete or out of date
- Continued work on upgrade-from-stable test suite, running in CI against BOSH-Lite


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Work continues on support in CC for users to specify ports Diego apps may listen on; this is a dependency for TCP Routing.
- Route Services work paused; CC contribution throughput limited to one pair. Will pick it up again once we finish the present TCP epic. CLI contribution paused until CLI PM returns from vacation.
- Work has begun on an epic to emit metrics consistently for all routing components, and expose them on Datadog dashboards. This sets the stage for our next performance benchmarking epic.

### MEGA - Amit Gupta

- Cut CF v225
- Refactored Consul startup scripts, test-driven and rewritten in Golang
- Addressed medium severity in Postgres, upgraded to 9.4.5
- CATS can choose explicit backend (Diego/DEA)
- 7 PRs, 9 GitHub issues, 4 cf-dev/cf-bosh mailing list questions

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell
 * Metron-Doppler link now running TCP/TLS traffic in development environments, now tuning buffering strategy with load testing. Release is on the horizon!
 * Loggregator as separate release underway (allows independent deployments to embed Metron and use to inject data into Loggregator)
 * Added metrics around requests in Traffic Controller
 * Added (missing) metrics for container metric sinks in Doppler

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- Released UAA 2.7.3 -> Better SAML Error Handling, Support for NameID's other than email, LDAP Updates expose user attributes and group memberships in token
- Added generic support for excluding JWT claims from token. GE raised this request to exclude authorities from the token as the same information is propagated in the scopes as well
- UAAC Updates in progress: Manage Clients , Users & Groups in a specific zone via an Admin user or client in the default zone (-z option)
- UAA Java Client SDK work in progress
### Lattice - David Wadden

- Windows support will land in v0.7.0
  - `vagrant up` / `terraform apply` brings up Linux cluster from Windows
  - ltc works from Windows
- Lattice is no longer being staffed by Pivotal
  - The upcoming release v0.7.0 will be the final release
  - v0.7.0 will not restore functionality to DigitalOcean, Google Compute or Openstack 
  - Pivotal is taking the lessons from Lattice to create a local full CF instance

---

- Pivotal launched Lattice around 1 year ago with the following goals:
  - Get feedback on Cloud Foundry Diego runtime by making it available to users before Diego was fully integrated to Cloud Foundry
  - Give new users a several minute getting started experience for Cloud Foundry technology without having to learn BOSH
  - Develop and try out new features like docker support, tcp routing, and ssh-to-containers before they were available in Cloud Foundry
  - Discover if a smaller profile packaging of Cloud Foundry components that easily could run on a laptop or popular public clouds would gain traction and develop a community and an identity as a focused project
- What we learned over the last year with lattice:
  - Lattice delivered on early-access usage for Diego and garden, especially the docker image support
users love a simple and quick "vagrant up" getting started experience
  - It is very valuable to to try out new experimental features before they are in full Cloud Foundry
  - Most users wanted the full Cloud Foundry API missing in lattice up to this point
  - The container runtime ecosystem has continued to develop quickly and fragment with many choices - lattice did not gain traction as a project with momentum independent of Cloud Foundry
- What we're doing going forward based on this learning:
  - We are focusing the team working on lattice to create a simple and fast experience for developers that want to stand-up small footprint full Cloud Foundry instances
  - The goal is to enable the best experience for local or near-local development of cloud native applications

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
- Continuing to work on completing support for Private Brokers scoped to a space
- Continuing work on support for Application Process Types
- Continued XTP with Routing in support of TCP Routing/Multiple Ports
- Preparing to incept on Elastic Clusters
- Working on a proposal for adding support for [Tasks](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/epic/show/2205074)
- MF - Question about updates on Elastic CLusters proposal.  Questions in the proposal haven't been addressed.
- DC - Will work on updating the proposal by the end of the week/early next week and sharing that for feedback.

### Flintstones - Simon Moser
