# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-11-03

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities

  * Proposal to move `cf-registrar` to the attic (Amit)
  	* No objections (members present: Sree, Shannon, Eric M., Amit, Matt Sykes, Jim Campbell, Atul)
  * Proposal to move UAA Java Client Library out of incubation (Sree)
  	* Sree will put proposal on cf-dev mailing list

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Identified serious performance issues with btrfs, especially when using disk quotas
	- Have switched back to aufs
	- Minimal implementation to support buildpack based apps delivered, not fleshing out features required for Docker image support in production
	- Working on setting up new performance tests

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- Slow but steady progress, but only one pair working on this part time
- Will get back up to full speed on this next week when we get an additional pair

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario
- Inception scheduled for 11/11.
- Recently performed a user study with an experienced CF user who wanted to set up .NET support. Got GREAT feedback.
    - If anyone else is interested in being part of a user study, please reach out!
- Investing in updating and clarifying documentation with some current exploration stories.
- Finding more real-world bugs as users begin to install in production environments and report them. (eg. containerizer user must have local-logon privs)
- Created a new standalone application, [Hakim](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/hakim) for debugging purposes.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Performance:
	- Breadth:
		- 100-cell test concluded, scheduling and bulk-loops performed well
		- investigating issues with etcd dropping writes during benchmark-test seeding
	- Depth:
		- seeing issues with overloaded cells during staging
		- btrfs quota groups seem to exacerbate CPU contention, disk I/O degradation
		- getting aufs builds from garden, stressing out with lots of container churn, disk IO

- Docker:
	- can now stage (only) from v2 Docker registries

- Placement:
	- auction distributes tasks much more evenly across cells
	- auction times out failed state requests more aggressively by default
	- more logging around auction activity

- Upgrade testing:
	- developing automated test suite to verify downtimeless upgrades from 0.1434.0 to HEAD

QUESTION: [MS] Eric mentioned something about it taking a long time for the catastrophic-etcd-failure experiment to repopulate the database because NSync had to regenerate all the SSH tokens, and the idea of storing this data in CCDB. Is this the best place to do it?
ANSWER: [EM] Happily welcome proposals from MS, will discuss in person when MS is in San Francisco next week.
QUESTION: [AG] Can scheduling take disk I/O into account as a constrained resource, rather than directly trying to distribute tasks more evenly, since the problem isn't really lots of tasks, it's that buildpack staging tasks tend to be I/O-intensive?
ANSWER: [EM] Eventually, network bandwith and disk I/O should be treated as constrained resources in the scheduling algorithm, something that will be possible after moving to RunC.

### Routing - Shannon Coen
- Recently finished plumbing route-services feature through CC API
- Started working on CLI feature to support route-services
- Cross-team pairing with CAPI team for multiple app ports, enabling developer to manage which container ports are opened
- Working on HA for TCP Routing
- submitted PRs to CLI team to support TCP routing

### Mega - Amit Gupta
- Not much external-facing progress on main tracks
- Lots of internal refactoring of our tooling
- Numerous GitHub issues, PRs, and mailing list queries

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell
 - Name "change" from LAMB to Loggregator
 - TCP/TLS link between Metron and Doppler on going
 - Exploring possibility of Diego Executor-Metron TCP link
 	- Need to investigate how to deal with shedding back-pressure, and whether this logic goes in dropsonde or executor
 - Steady flow of pull requests and cf-dev support

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- UAA Release 2.7.1 Released
  - Invitations API for external users (SAML & LDAP)
  - UAA & SAML Integration : Map SAML Roles/Group Memberships to OAuth Scopes, Expose SAML Claims in OpenID COnnect JWT token
  - UAA & LDAP Claims Integration: Expose LDAP User Attributes in OpenID Connect JWT token
  - Release notes will be updated shortly
-  Work in Progress
  - Support for Inviting Users (For LDAP/SAML) whose usename is not the same as email address
  - SAML Error Handling and Propagation
  - Global Configuration for Access an Refresh token lifetime
  - SAML Session timeout handling and token expiry
  - Inception on UAA Java Client Library
  
### Lattice - David Wadden

- Exploring how to bring the developer experience on Lattice more in-line with the CF developer experience
  - Spiking on adding UAA/CC and measuring footprint increase on single node
  	- QUESTION: [AK] What's the difference between Lattice and BOSH-Lite in this case?
  	- ANSWER: [SC] Lattice gives you CF without having to know BOSH, manifests, releases, etc.
  	- FOLLOW-UP: [MS] Would like to see a proposal. How far down the path of enabling full local development of CF apps and services is the Lattice team planning to go?  For example, is there a plan to support brokered services?
  	- FOLLOW-UP: [AK] What will happen to the `ltc` CLI?
  	- ANSWER: [EM] Not sure, maybe a hybrid usage of `ltc` and `cf`.
- Reviewing download metrics / survey results to better understand Lattice use cases + configurations
  - Will inform prioritization of (re-)adding support for DigitalOcean, GCE, other platforms
- Lattice [v0.6.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice-release/releases/tag/v0.6.0) (Diego 0.1434.0) released
  - Built with packer-bosh instead of hand-rolled Upstart scripts
  - "temporarily discontinued" platform(s) being reviewed for prioritization 
  - `USER` directives are honored from docker images (can also specify manually)
  - `ltc` can define HTTP routes to fully-qualified domains and context paths [#104](cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice#104) [#217](cloudfoundry-incubator/lattice#217)
- Windows support being added for Lattice "as a user"
  - `vagrant up` / `terraform apply` brings up Linux cluster from Windows
  - Supports ltc running on Windows

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
