# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-09-21

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- After an upgrade to Concourse 2.0 we found our CI environment insecure, exposing credentials and private keys.  
  We are not aware of anyone having gotten hold of or used them in any way. We have confirmed our published releases were never touched.  
  In response to the exposure, we have rebuilt our CI environment, and revoked our code signing certificates. All previously signed Mac OS X installers have been re-signed. The Windows installer and binaries were signed with a timestamp server, so they will continue to work.  
  We'll have a post-mortem soon. For now, we have removed the code signing steps from the CI environment and performing this manually for the release.
- Planning to publish a release this week, incorporating improved help pages, and to publish Debian and RPM package repositories to allow users to install the cf CLI with `apt-get` and `yum`.
- Next release will focus on a number of community requested feature enhancements and bug fixes.
- Also exploring how to expose V3 tasks through the cf CLI, as well as container to container networking related workflows, and long-lived uaa tokens.
- Planning to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon.
- Validating assumptions with IBM (who have been updating the translations of CLI messages) about the requirement and scope of localisation in the cf CLI: While maintaining the translated help pages, is there room for discontinuing the localisation of error messages? This came out of a realisation during the refactor work that quite an amount of engineering effort goes into maintaining internationalization support. Note that we won't make any changes without consulting with the CF community.

### Garden

#### Garden Core - Julz Friedman

#### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- Disk quotas completed
- Docker support completed
- Beginning work on a BOSH release to integrate with Garden-runC

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Running 40K-instance experiments on GCP: apps pushed, investigating bulk cycle durations
- Continuing improvements to experimental tooling to make running the experiments easier and to support the scale goal
- Finished work on placement tags for isolation segments
- Added some DesiredLRP commands to `cfdot`
- Dissolved the "gunk" junk-drawer utility repo in favor of a few focused repos


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

#### `consul-release`
* Lots of work to improve Consul DNS performance, some back-and-forth between implementation via `dnsmasq` and implementaton via bumping to Consul 0.7; current plan is to bump Consul to 0.7.
* Lots of work to improve stability of cluster operations, including automatic cluster recovery in cases of quorum loss recovery; some of this work conflicts with the Consul 0.7 bump.

#### `etcd-release`
* No significant changes.

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* Moving to `cloudfoundry` organization in GitHub.
* Polishing some of the commands, flags, and documentation.
* `bbl` is now re-entrant, allowing users to simply re-run `up` or `destroy` commands in case they fail part-way for external reasons.

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

####  `cf-release`
* No notable changes.

#### `cf-deployment`
* Spike deploying BOSH 2.0 deployment of CF on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
* Validate CATS pass for CF on GCP, except still working on SSH tests.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
* Expose configurability of `cf` CLI dial timeout in errand.
* Move all configuration for running CATS into the `$CONFIG` file.
* Prepare to move all CATS into a single suite.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
* Expose configurability of `cf` CLI dial timeout in errand.

#### `nats-release`
* Fix an issue in `nats-release` CI pipeline to ensure both BOSH 1.0 and BOSH 2.0 manifest for Cloud Foundry are being exercised.

### postgres-release - Amit Gupta

#### `postgres-release`
* No changes.

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Allen Duet

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar

### PERSI - Ted Young

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
