# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-09-06

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Merged our refactoring branch into master, currently resolving inconsistencies in output of some commands.
- Completing the last story on [improving the UX](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YasoPyhuajxcecV0QuFAtvnscR0ZZ1_vterDVXY8qDM/edit?usp=sharing) of the main help page, added "see also" sections to individual help pages.
- Validating assumptions with IBM (who have been updating the translations of CLI messages) about the requirement and scope of localisation in the cf CLI: While maintaining the translated help pages, is there room for discontinuing the localisation of error messages? This came out of a realisation during the refactor work that quite an amount of engineering effort goes into maintaining internationalization support. Note that we won't make any changes without consulting the CF community.
- The next release will be after the discussion above is resolved and a number of (minor) help page improvements have been implemented.
- Looking into changing the Windows installer to allow users to install the cf CLI without requiring administrator access.
- Signing the RPMs with a Cloud Foundry Foundation certificate.
- Preparing to host an RPM package repository to allow users to install and update their cf CLI using `yum`.
- Considering to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon after releasing the new help.
- Exploring how to expose V3 tasks through the cf CLI, as well as container to container networking related workflows, and long-lived uaa tokens.

### Garden

#### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- _Still_ very close to shipping v0.2.0 with support for Docker images (held up by a fiddly bug)
- Disk quotas now also very close to being completed
- Up next, more work to actually integrate with Garden-runC

#### Garden Core - Julz Friedman

 - Garden-runc 100% of PWS!! Thinking of cutting a 1.0 release and recommending everyone migrate soon.. (at which point we will discuss a timetable to end-of-life garden-linux)
 - Now that garden-runc is in production, with AppArmor and seccomp, it is significantly safer to turn on docker support in multi-tenant environments...
 - Released 0.7.0 to fix a window size bug encountered by concourse and to ensure aufs module is loaded even when graph driver is disabled
 - Released 0.8.0 to fix PATH environment-variable bug
 - Our CI cannot yet produce patch releases
 - Lots of investigation in to performance on Softlayer
 - Focus now turning back to garden-runc-runs-as-non-root-user work

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

- Nothing new to report with respect to Greenhouse.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Initial round of development done on app-pusher and app-monitoring tools
- Running 5000-instance tests on AWS and GCP environments
- Started work on Cell and LRP/Task placement tags to support isolation segments
- Cells that have reached their evacuation timeout shut down containers gracefully
- Updated diego-release to use Golang 1.7
- Added more ActualLRP commands to `cfdot`


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Spaces can be associated with an isolation segment
- Org work underway

### Loggregator - Allen Duet
- Research on improving throughput of messages
- Upgrading LATS for TCP?TLS support & LATS fixes
- addresing service discovery issues - evaluating moving to consul from etcd
- Working on tags in dropsonde metrics

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar

### PERSI - Ted Young
- commited v2.10 Volume Service API
- Shared Volumes now considered GA
- Working on Amazon EFS broker and driver

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Single interface c2c code is now in garden development branch. Thanks to the garden team for merging our PR
- Working on setting up a scalabilty testbed, will continue to flesh out scalability and stabilty tests

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- Bits-service pipeline was hit by the port change from CC WebDAV client - main activity in the last days was to get the pipeline back to green.
- Team was at most 1 person in the last weeks, therefore very slow progress. 
