# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-02-23

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements
 * UAA Deprecated Properties notification is out. We are providing a 3 month window before dropping support for these properties.

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
 * Move [Login-Server](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/login-server) to Attic

## Discussion

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Team doubled to two pairs!
- Still close to releasing CLI v6.16.0, which will expose routing services, space-scoped service brokers, updated Japanese translations, various help page cleanups and a number of community requested features and bug fixes. We're waiting for the next cf release which contains a bug fix for one of the routing services APIs.
- Taking good advantage of the waiting for cf release time by completing the GoCD-> concourse migration and community bug fixing.
- Completing GoCD to Concourse migration. Intending to discard GoCD env right after CLI v6.16.0 is out.
- Pub Tools staged a draft of an integrate online command reference guide (`cf help` page only). Reviewing with them and working towards a separate site to hyperlink to for generated help from all commands and supported languages.
- In looking into strategies to keep the language files up to date, trying to find the right contact person with IBM who may have experience with crowd-sourced translation.
- Working on a proposal for a cli command to check if it's the latest, potentially update itself (no progress).

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Shipped v0.333.0, see the [release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/garden-linux-release/releases/tag/v0.333.0) for details.
- Shipping v0.334.0 today, ([release notes here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/garden-linux-release/releases/tag/v0.334.0)) with more configurable graph cleanup options. Previously just on/off, now a disk usage threshold can be set.
- Fixed a bug that was affecting BOSH-Lite where containers sometimes temporarily lost network connectivity when other containers were created or destroyed.

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- Docker lifecle tests now pass in DATS. SSH suite failing - turns out we weren't previously running it because the tests exited after the Docker failures. Hope to see it all green this week.
- Will chat to Diego team in the next week to begin forming an integration and switchover plan.

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario
- A number of chores and bug fixes, including validating and accepting some pull requests
- Fixed a broken build several times
- Created API proposal for Garden port mapping to work cross-platform
- Moving forward continuing with bug fixes, chores, and seeking feedback from real world users


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing validation of relational store for BBS at scale
	- improved BBS benchmark suite to include individual read/write load from cell reps
	- benchmarking against CF MySQL deployment, investigating its failure modes
- In-memory cache in BBS improved retrieval times, but would still entail storing GBs of data in etcd
- Can install trusted certs in cflinuxfs2 containers, working on providing to all Linux containers
- Documented and published team tooling to create a CF+Diego deployment on AWS
- Added logging, metrics to determine whether the route-emitter's routing table ever maps two instances to the same ip:port
- Fixing bugs around handling special characters in credentials
- Inception planned for March 3


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Work continues on adding support for management of TCP routes and multiple app ports to cloud controller. Shared a short development update video with cf-dev showing the happy path is working using curls to cloud controller. CLI team is currently working on adding support for these features.
- Routing components communicate with UAA for auth with Routing API. This communication is internal, using Consul for service discovery. We are moving this communication to TLS only. Identity team is currently updating spiff templates to configure UAA to listen on a TLS port by default.
- Routing API is being removed from cf-release and added to cf-routing-release. 
- We plan to cut a final release of cf-routing release once TLS support is complete and routing-api is deployed with that release by default.
- Soon we'll start an epic on mitigating stale routes, and a performance epic is currently being scoped.

### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres, environment bootstrapping)

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines)

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

- Collector is no more
- Fixed DEA drain - uncovered issue with wait_pidfile
- Any ongoing staging is halted when the application is stopped
- Staging and starting are prevented when evacuating or shutting down
- Deny networks is removed (it didn't do anything anymore)

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
 - UAA 3.2.0 Release work in progress
       - Zonify the SAML Cert/Key Pair & JWT Signing/Verification Keys. This will lay the foundation for key rotation.
       - Merged SAML IDP Support from GE 
       - Work started on UAA Persistent & revocable tokens
       - Investigating Spring Rest Docs for UAA Documentation
       
### CAPI - Dieu Cao

### PERSI - Ted Young
- Created Bosh Release for CephFS
- Research, CI and team bootstrapping almost complete. It takes about a month for a team to get set up and oriented.
- Gravitating towards Docker Plugin model
- Getting validation of our approach from customers
  - Scratch space is a useful offering in tandem with DFS
  - How to offer existing datasets as services/plans is an area to explore

### Container Networking - Evan Farrar
- Have a runc plugin for gaurdian which allows us to use CNI network plugins
- Containers get a second adapter on an overlay when a container is created through gaurdian
- On the same host, these containers can ping each other on this overlay
- Working on pinging across two hosts, but this has led to the need for a data store for mapping container IP to host IP
