# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-01-26

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements
- decision for CF final release candidate SHA now happens via issues in a [Foundation repo](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-final-release-election) and involves PMs and anchors from all teams contributing to the core.
- Amit proposes to make this repo publicly viewable (main risk is we need to be careful when discussing CVEs in relation to approving/disapproving a candidate SHA)
- Release notes have a section on Job Spec Changes; Amit is asking PMs to contribute to this section when they contribute to the rest of the release notes.

## PMC Lifecycle Activities

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- CLI v6.15.0 was released 2 weeks ago exposing routes with path feature, and included IBM contributed language files for 9 languages. The next release, v6.16.0, is still a few weeks away and will expose Route services, TCP routing features and space-scoped service brokers.
- Completed CLI UX reviews with Shannon on stories on upcoming Routing features.
- 1 pair started v3 API stories and takes on ad hoc issues, the other, cross-team, pair continues on Routing stories 
- Looking into strategies to keep the language files up to date.
- Pairing with the Doc team on cleaning up the existing CLI documentation on docs.cloudfoundry.org - in particular removing the focus on v5 and v6 changes and v6 justifications.
- Working with the Doc Tools team to integrate a command reference guide generated from CLI help output.
- Working on a proposal for a cli command to check if it's the latest, potentially update itself.
- Pivotal engineer who's been visiting Sydney this month to ramp up a new Fujitsu engineer is returning to SF on Friday. Discussing with Chip tomorrow how to continue.

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Shipped v0.331.0, see the [release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/garden-linux-release/releases/tag/v0.331.0) for details
- Discovered that a bug in the linux kernel can cause unkillable zombie processes. Stemcells 3160 and later contain the bad version of the kernel. Still honing in on some of the details, will send an update to the cf-dev list tomorrow (01-27-16)

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- NetOut now works
- Now have support for bind mounts
- Otherwise slow progress due to CI issues and an elusive bug causing Diego deployments with Guardian to fail at the moment
- Tracker thinks we should be able to ship a v0.1.0, which would be suitable for Diego to begin testing with, in mid Feb

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Adding rep bulk loops to BBS benchmark tests
- Saw that spreading out container starts produced some improvement in evacuation performance; will carry out change to the auction soon
- Suppressed noisy health-check log output, logging only health transitions
- Finished merging DATs into CATs, will soon switch CI only to run CATs in correct mode and remove the DATs
- Worked on upgrading to Go 1.5.3, only to find garden-linux won't run in inigo test suite; will wait for Go 1.6 release next week
- Planning to work with Loggregator team soon to enable executor-to-metron TCP commmunication
- Various improvements to logging, metrics, docs, and manifest generation


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres, environment bootstrapping)
- consul acceptance tests running in CI
- bump golang to 1.5.3
- numerous fixes to consul and etcd startup scripts, fixing several issues users had been seeing, especially with Diego database VM

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines)
- CF releases: v227 - v229
- helped with Java Buildpack CVE fix
- worked with Diego on merging DATS into CATS
- finishing work on healthcheck hooks in route-registrar for UAA
- ongoing work on mitigating credential leaks, especially from biuld output
- lots of pipeline stuff, lots of community stuff

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell
- Performance analysis of Loggregator chain shows Metron is the bottleneck. Code profiling has identified several places for improvement. That work is underway.
- Adding TCP to UDP and TLS as transports between Metron and Doppler. Once qualified, TCP will become the default.

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- UAA 3.0.0 Released. Release notes [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/3.0.0)
- White-Labelling work in progress. 
- Will be leveraging the new route de-registration support added by Release Intergration team to tackle the down-time issue related to 
  UAA start-up and shut-down
- UAA Token Persistence and Token Revocation spec is being reviwed internally. This will be made available for feedback and review by the foundation in the coming week.

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
- Started work on Tasks on v3
- Continuing work on v3 and application process types
- Lots of api doc clean up
- Very experimental new api docs for v3 in progress
