# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-07-12

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.20.0 addressing some regressions (plug-ins, .cfignore pattern, loggregator panic) and allowing binding of route services to routes with paths.
- Restarted work on adding support for defining TCP routes and HTTP routes with paths in app manifests.
  The first story on that has taken much longer than expected as `cf push` lacked unit tests and needed a lot of refactoring before the actual enhancements could be implemented. This story has now been delivered and we're hoping the remaining stories to complete the epic will go more smoothly.
- Shared our proposal for an improved `cf help` UX on the CF Dev mailing list.
  The implementation is scheduled to start right after the app manifest epic is completed and released.
- Updating docs.cloudfoundry.org pages to hyperlink references to cf CLI commands to the [command reference guide](http://cli.cloudfoundry.org).
- Looking into creating a policy on what CF releases a cf CLI release supports.
  We want people to be able to install one version of the CLI (the latest) for use with all their CF deployments: potentially multi-region production environments as well as local bosh-lite environments of different versions. At the same time, we would like to remove code complexity dealing with the split of domains in private and share domains and what was there before, and remove the loggregator_consumer library and only rely on the noaa library to retrieve logs and stats.
  I'm working on a proposal to share with the CF Dev mailing list soon.

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

#### Garden-runC

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

### Diego - Eric Malm

### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar

### PERSI - Ted Young

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- Delivered the bits-service pull request to the CAPI team, making the Bits-service a first class citizen in CF release
- Continuing on signed URLs in the 
- Incepted on bits-service to CLI integration (next item)



