# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-03-09

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements

- Nick Calugar entering PM Dojo on CAPI team
	- assuming successful Dojo, expect proposal to change CAPI PM to Nick
- Michael Fraenkel: ETA for CF v232?
	- BOSH-Lite currently paused, holding the release up
	- seems like UAA has been broken for a couple days now


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI v6.16.0 (exposing routing services, space-scoped service brokers, etc.) soon followed by v6.16.1 that fixed a regression in `cf sso-code`.
- Next release will expose TCP routes and multiple app ports.
- Completed the GoCD-> concourse migration.
- Struggling with deploying CF release and Diego and Routing on bosh-lite environments locally and on AWS. Looking forward to the day that they're included be default.
- Reserved cli.cloudfoundry.org domain with Chip, very close to publishing the online command reference guide.
- Internally shared a proposal for a better way to declare routes in app manifests. Rewriting to include two options based on feedback received so far.
- In looking into strategies to keep the language files up to date, trying to find the right contact person in IBM who may have experience with crowd-sourced translation (no progress).
- Working on a proposal for a cli command to check if it's the latest, potentially update itself (no progress).


### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)


### Greenhouse - Steven Benario
- Lots of chores, fixing the build, etc in the past several weeks.
- Investigated a feature request from cf-dev about health checks being inconsistent on Windows. For now, we have decided not to implement any changes, as they would break existing behavior and we believe end up with a net-negative experience for users. Context: [#112914163](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1156164/stories/112914163)
- Fixed an issue in streaming in large droplets (or slow environments) to be consistent with diego on linux behavior.
- Continuing to move forward on incremental features and chores with a single pair.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing validation of relational store for BBS at scale
    - BBS benchmark test suite now generates realistic load on BBS, including rep's per-record operations
    - After some client-side HTTP tuning in the test suite, latest run at 200K instances is well within required bulk time windows
- Proceeding with relational store backend in BBS
- Incepted on scale work, import-path service, Diego operator tooling, investigating active rebalancing
- Removed DATs and Diego smoke tests in favor of CATs, CF Smoke Tests
- Re-did story to set up SSH server environment via launcher, but will roll back based on concern about idempotence of arbitrary buildpack .profile.d scripts
- Improving BBS API docs, starting with Tasks
- Cross-team pairing with Persi team to integrate volume management into executor
- Plan to work with Buildpacks team to extract Diego's cflinuxfs2 rootfs job into its own release


### Routing - Shannon Coen
- Support for Route Services shipped with cf-release v231 and CLI v6.16. Integration with Gorouter is still experimental while we gather feedback on the request format.
- Work continues on support for Multiple App Ports in Cloud Controller. Buttoning up how to handle cases involving moving apps back and forth between DEA and Diego, Docker vs Buildpack, and how mapped routes are affected.
- Work continues on support for TCP Routing. 
  - Soon we'll be cutting a final release of cf-routing-release that includes:
    - Routing API has been moved from cf-release to cf-routing-release (eventually we plan for Gorouter to be deployed with this release also)
    - Routing components use Oauth tokens from UAA to communicate with Routing API. Communication with UAA is internal, using Consul for discovery, and over TLS only.
    - Support for BOSH-provisioned CAs
  - Soon we'll add support for admins to configure the range of reservable ports for the TCP Router Group. Currently this range is hard-coded to 1024-65535.
- Planned for the future: additional instrumentation of routing components, exploration of current router performance capabilities, mitigation of known scenarios for stale routing.


### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres)

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines, acceptance tests, manifest generation)

* CF v231
* MVP of tool to generate manifests for CF composed of multiple releases
* Pipeline work
* Community work
* route-registrar supports shebangs in health-check scripts
* significant corrections to getting-started documentation for CF on AWS

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Remove unnecessary NATs exchanges (dea.advertise to HM9000)
- Fix runaway renames
- Improved logging when uploads fail
- Updated ruby-nats to allow subscribes before connect

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
- made pipeline available to the world under https://flintstone.ci.cf-app.com/
- implemented buildpack, droplet and app_stash endpoints in the bits service
- working on buildpack_cache to complete functional parity now


### Loggregator - Jim Campbell
- Debugging Doppler memory leak revealed on PWS deploy of Metron->Doppler TLS
- Metron performance improvement requiring deeper work. CPU went from 95% to 30% but no increase in 5K/sec throughput
- Community support, pipeline work


### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- UAA 3.2.0 Released : SAML IDP Support,SAML Single Logout Support, Zonification of JWT & SAML Keys in progress
- In Progress
  - Generic OpenID Connect Relying Party Support
  - Persistent Revocable Tokens
  - Spring Rest Docs for UAA API

       
### CAPI - Dieu Cao & Nicholas Calugar
- New PM: Nicholas Calugar - ncalugar@pivotal.io  (Currently dojo’ing as PM)
- v3 Tasks Alpha - will likely hit release marker this week - 2 stories ready for acceptance and 2 making their way through pipeline.
- Replaced NFS with WebDAV. WebDAV is the default for bosh-lite
- Continued working towards new API docs based on Slate, preview here: http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/version/release-candidate/


### PERSI - Ted Young
- Working on Docker Plugin Implementation
- Pairing with Diego on Executor  integration


### Container Networking - Evan Farrar
- Completed single host level 3 connectivity between containers
- Close to having multi-host level 3 connectivity between gaurdian containers
- Next we will try to use our work with the Guardian+Diego to evaluate what needs to be done for integration

