# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-11-16

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Prettified the [CLI repo readme](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/blob/master/README.md) with CFF logo and ToC.
  Please take a look & copy & paste to yours what you like!  
  (Molten logo made available by CFF in a GH repo for this usage)
- Nearing completion of one-off task related commands. CAPI is evaluating the edge builds and providing feedback.  
 In the meantime we're adding long-lived uaa tokens, creation of external users and updating of port ranges of router groups before we release.
- Progressing well on exposing staged application artefacts ("droplets") upload UX.
- Planning to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) in the release after the next one.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Will release Diego v1.0 soon!
- Finished 250K-instance experiment successfully against Postgres, running a shorter one against MySQL as well
- Finished work to secure cell rep API with TLS
- Fixed a few SQL-related bugs
- Updated documentation to deprecate etcd-only mode, remove garden-linux
- Adopting cf-deployment in a pipeline environment

### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Adrian Zankich

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Cut v246
- Added support for dotnet-core buildpack
#### `cf-deployment`
- Finished migration spike
- Fixing small issues based on feedback from other teams (things like erroneous consul routes and update watch times)
- Consume buildpacks from their individual releases
- Improve README and other docs to enable other teams to dog-food
#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Audited binaries for EAR compliance
- Added test for dotnet-core buildpack
- Added test for container networking
#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No changes
#### `nats-release`
- No changes
### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Started work on improving PostgreSQL version upgrade procedure to consume less disk space
- Continuing work on ci pipeline to optimise it

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- Continuing work on rate limiter for Cloud Controller
- Bumped to Golang 1.7 for CC-Bridge
- Work on elminating the CC-Bridge is going well, sorting out security around Diego calling back to CC
- PRs for Isolation Segments are being merged

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- work with LDS continues on kerberized NFS
- new work on NFSv3 with support for app-specific UIDs (& LDAP?)
- volume services available in OSS PCFDev!
- discussions with Kubernetes and Mesosphere on common volume interface standard to continue in early december.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Announced netman-release version 0.6.0 last week to the community. It has all the features to enable policy-driven direct container to container communication.
- Worked on performance enhancements, implemented changes to the way iptables rules are updated and saw a significant improvement in enforce time
- Made a variety of security related fixes. 

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
