# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-01-12

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## PMC Lifecycle Activities

- Container Networking Team proposal for Incubation in the Runtime PMC 
  - No objections raised to the team being incubated. No objections to Evan Ferrar leading that effort.
- Persistence Team proposal for Incubation in the Runtime PMC
  - No objections raised to the team being incubated. No objections to Ted Young leading that effort.
- Separation of DEA, HM9K, and warden into a new team in the Runtime PMC.
  - No objections raised to separating this team out "Runtime OG" as a active project. No objections to Michael Fraenkel leading that effort.
- Proposal to move the cf CLI to the Runtime PMC.
  - No objections raised to moving it. Pending followup from the Utilities PMC. 
- Consider alternatiing Runtime PMC meetings between mornings and afternoons. Record meetings as well.

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Fixed some bugs relating to use of custom registries as the defauly registry
- Turned on noatime and turned off journaling for the graph filesystem in an attempt to improve performance, though have not yet measured the impact due to CI pipeline issues
- Will ship v0.331.0 with the above changes once CI is back to normal

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- Now running the Diego smoke tests against a CF deployment using Guardian!
- Next step is to use Vizzini (Diego tests) and DATS + CATS to confirm prioritisation of remaining work required to migrate Diego over to Guardian

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario
- Team strength significantly down over past several weeks due to holidays
- Dealt with a particularly pernicious bug around tar streaming which required replacing the entire tar library we were using.
- Fixed a "zero resource usage" bug (due to clock skew)
- Implemented bind-mounts for Diego's change, but have not yet pushed. Been dealing with cross-team pipeline issues yesterday.
- Currently working on cleanup, chores, and getting back into a groove after the holidays.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Bind-mounting buildpack downloads track done: BBS/executor story just delivered, needs final acceptance
- Running BBS benchmarks with more I/O performance on database VMs
	- are passing at 200K instances with bulk loop times around 25-30s
	- etcd raft term still increases quickly during test runs, probably when seeding records
- Investigated slow evacuation times during rolling deploys
	- native net-check action had negligible impact
	- system seems I/O-bound during creation of and copying droplet bits into dozens of containers
	- exploring broader distribution of in-flight container starts for mitigation
- `diego-sshd` server supports sftp subsystem (thanks to Matt Sykes!)
- Adding logging for CF app instance health transitions, will mute 'noisy' healthcheck logs
- Will merge DATs into CATs with appropriate BOSH configuration on errand to allow running correctly against either DEAs or Diego backends
- Various improvements to logging, metrics, and manifest generation


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Route Services: CC API nearly complete; CLI in progress; may hold off on support for forwarding proxies per RFC
- CLI team says they plan to ship a release this week with support for management of routes with paths! 
- TCP Routing: Recently begain working on adding support for a client to specify an app port when mapping a route to an app. This is the epic that makes all the work we've done on TCP routing and Multiple App Ports usable by CF clients. 
- We've updated routing components use of oauth tokens. We no longer fetch a token on each request, deploy fails fast if UAA is not available. Use of oauth can be disabled.
- We've been instrumenting the routing components. Many metrics are now emitted. This prepares us for an upcoming track of performance investigations.
- DB migration needed for mapping routes with ports to apps. Should be a backwards compatible migration.  
  - Question about whether the changes affects running apps or just the management of routes.  
  - Should only affect the management of routes.

### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres, environment bootstrapping)
- Consul: fixing regressions introduced after rewriting startup scripts from Bash to Go
- Consul: adding fault-tolerance tests and running as errand in CI
- etcd: fixing startup bug which was leading to diego database jobs to fail to start

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines)
- CATS: ensuring that all test cases follow best-practices, e.g. clean up all created resources after each test
- CATS: allow configurable backend (DEA, Diego, let-CC-decide)
- route-registrar: implementing deregistration and health checking
- cf-release: bumping ruby versions
- cf-release: cutting releases, now up to v227

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Warden upgrade to ruby 2.2.4
- In progress DEA upgrade to ruby 2.2.4 and gems
- Question about other components still on the ruby 2.1.x line if they can be upgraded separately

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell
 - **Major feature** [TLS Metron->Doppler](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator/#enabling-tls-between-metron-and-doppler). Code released, next step is PWS deployment.
 - **Major feature** [Loggregator as a separate BOSH release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/loggregator/#loggregator-as-a-separate-release), deployable to non-CF deployments
 - Current work is performance analysis of Loggregator

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
 - UAA 3.0.0 Release underway. Draft notes [here](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/untagged-e01db4906f86c447f7f0)
 - Next release will focus on white-labelling and removal of Pivotal Specific resources from UAA repo
 - Proposal for Token Revocation will be shared this week
 

### CAPI - Dieu Cao
 - Continued work on Process Types and v3
 - Incepted on Monday on the [Tasks Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CCHDUa2UWRjXkxEdksX4M9BGQ8hBqiMys46wxeF5XE4/edit?usp=sharing)
 - Notes from the inception will be shared on cf-dev
 - Making progress on replacing nfs with webdav protocol as the default blobstore for cloud controller in cf-release
 - API work for support of Space Scoped Private Brokers is complete in cf-release 227.  Will be removing the experimental flags for it soon, hopefully in the next cf-release.
 - Will be syncing up with Dies of the CLI team around adding support for app instance limits and space scoped private brokers on Wednesday.

