# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-04-06

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Nick has completed PM dojo on CAPI. Propose to have Nick be the new CAPI PM now that his dojo is complete.
- Propose to move this edition of this meeting to 3-4pm PT on Wednesdays to better accomodate Australia

## Discussion
- Go CVE coming for 1.5 and 1.6 affects SSL and SSH (Michael)
- IP selection for listen address and service registration. It is an issue with multiple adapters. (Michael)
- Certificate generation, are we supporting System CA cert? (Michael)

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Completed new Diego-Enabler plugin commands to ease bulk migration of apps between Diego and DEA runtimes
- Completed cf CLI command reference guide (http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/cf-cli/cf-help.html, http://cli.cloudfoundry.org/en-US/cf/push.html)
- Shared TCP routing App Manifest proposal, getting great feedback
- Changed CI pipeline to build CLI natively on MacOS instead of cross-compile to resolve some regressions
- Slowly progressing on exposing TCP Routing & multi app ports features
- Next CLI release will expose TCP routes and multiple app ports and expose app instance quotas.

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Found and fixed a bug where the `Containers()` method can deadlock. Shipping v0.336.0 this week with the fix.

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- Steady progress towards feature completion for Cloud Foundry, though we found a handful of items that had been overlooked, which pushes the release marker about a week further out in Tracker.
- Incepted future security work last week. Notes have not been shared publicly yet due to concerns about security. That should be resolved soon - contact Will in the meantime if you'd like to see them.
- Discussions with the Diego team about validating that Guardian will perform as well or better than Garden-Linux are ongoing.

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Almost done adding MySQL DB support to BBS component
- Finished upgrade to Go 1.6 in diego-release
- Finished initial collaboration with CF Persistence team to add volume support to executor, BBS, auction
- Finished initial collaboration with CAPI to copy CC-Bridge into cf-release
- Changing Diego pipeline to consume new cflinuxfs2-rootfs-release
- Will start testing Guardian in Diego CI soon


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres)

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines, acceptance tests, manifest generation)

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Upgrading to Go 1.6
- Completing heartbeats over HTTPS
- Beginning staging over HTTPS

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- Several fixes for WebDAV blobstore upon receiving feedback from community
- Majority of work to move Diego CC Bridge components into CAPI-Release is in acceptance
- All V3 (experimental) documentation has been moved to http://v3-apidocs.cloudfoundry.org/
- Continued work on V3 including bug fixes for Java BP, process types, and new app usage events
- Approx 30 stories before V3 MVP and we begin V2 -> V3 migration stories

### PERSI - Ted Young

### Container Networking - Evan Farrar
- Began work on integration with Diego
- opened pull requests for getting application ID passed into our plugin which we need for service discovery
- Writing a DNS based service discovery mechanism to discover the IPs of containers based on app.space.org
- Will be circulating a proposal for names to be defined by users instead of app.space.org for comment
- Considering a proposal to consolidate and make optional some network related portions of the Garden API

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
