# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-08-24

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements
Continuing to discuss DEA EOL proposal to determine if there's an alternative proposal that can be agreed on.

## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.21.1, fixing community reported bugs including a regression around ansi coloring in `cf logs` on Windows, and digitally signing the Windows binaries.
- Created a Debian package repository to allow users to install and update their cf CLI using `apt-get`. Investigating RPM.
- Kept refactoring on a branch while waiting for updates to a PR with translations, planning to merge soon.
- Identified a number of complications with maintain translations with the Goflags library introduced to replace the home-built command parsing logic. Taking into account the burden on the team of internationalization, a lack of other common CLI tools with built-in translations to use for reference, and low stats for non-English downloaders (judging from Accept-Language HTTP header), we wrote [a proposal to limit translations](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dMDPgDt-9YVScTRLUC_AnOmnFkV8zoAjqujsrsVKlOc/edit?ts=57b5f340#) to cover only the help pages, i.e. leave error and status messages in English. Asking input from IBM.
- Exploring some tweaks to the new [proposed](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YasoPyhuajxcecV0QuFAtvnscR0ZZ1_vterDVXY8qDM/edit?usp=sharing) `cf help` output.
- Considering to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon after releasing the new help.

### Garden

#### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- Very close to shipping v0.2.0 with support for Docker images
- Hit some speed bumps when trying to implement disk quotas as an unprivileged user, but now have a pattern to work around the restrictions in btrfs and the kernel
- Taking first steps to integrate with Garden-runC via PRs and validate that integration

#### Garden Core - Julz Friedman

- Slow progress last couple weeks due to multiple team vacations, conferences, support issues
- Garden-runc is now on 10% of the cells in PWS and feedback so far is good!
- Will be releasing garden-runc 0.6 tomorrow (pending acceptance of final story), bug fix release which improves handling of re-attaching to processes after restart, including returning correct exit code after restart (very long-running concourse feature request), fixes a bug where output is dropped if a process exits while writing to a TTY and ensures the semantics of `Lookup` match that of garden-linux to fix some inigo flakes
- Lots of PR merges (and a few more to go)
- Beginning x-team pairing with diego to investigate performance on Softlayer
- Hoping to get back to rootless-garden work this week now our velocity is picking back up

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

- Nothing new with respect to Greenhouse.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Observed slow garden-linux performance on SoftLayer cells, cross-team pairing with Garden to investigate
- Nearly done with new app-pusher and app-monitoring tools in diego-perf-release
- Will assess 5000-instance performance on AWS, GCE, and SoftLayer
- Tightened sizing requirements for cells in CF-driven scale tests
- Cell persists download cache across restarts
- Continuing `cfdot` development: BOSH-deployable, can connect via TLS, list domains and ActualLRPs
- Produced initial version of proposal for API to update LRP definitions; refining and will circulate to CAPI, other teams for input soon


### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

* bbl creates and exposes CA for BOSH to support new BOSH CLI
* etcd TLS upgrade with minimal downtime now available in `cf-release` and exercised on PWS
* Massive speedups to `consul-release` and `etcd-release` CI pipelines
* bbl tags and names all resources for better identifiability
* Started work on rearchitecting Consul orchestration to support quorom loss recovery scenarios

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

* "Minimal CF" deployment in CI and OSS docs switched over from DEA to Diego
* More pipeline improvements and refactorings
* BOSH 2.0 CF manifest now public and supports interpolation via new BOSH CLI (no spiff)
* Mostly finished "linkifying" `nats` jobs in `nats-release`
* Major refactorings in CF Acceptance Tests leading to cutting runtime in half!

### postgres-release - Amit Gupta

* Bump postgres to 9.4.9

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Allow starts to be retried elsewhere if DEA is evacuating

- Delivered first story for Isolation Segments 

### Loggregator - Allen Duet
- Finishing work on adding TCP and TLS support for Metron to Doppler communication.  Planning on running a validation test against Pivotal Web Services deployment, observing delivery reliability before and after UDP to TCP config change.
- Focusing on work to investigate issues with log loss from Cell to Metron.  Based on customer issues and feedback have identified some use scenarios where we can overwhelm Metron and cause loss, looking into mitigation options.

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- [CVE-2016-5016 UAA accepts expired certificates](https://pivotal.io/security/cve-2016-5016)
- [UAA Release 3.6.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/3.6.0)
  - This is a security release which addresses [CVE-2016-5007 Spring Security / MVC Path Matching Inconsistency](http://pivotal.io/security/cve-2016-5007)
- UAA 3.7.0
  - User based API tokens work in progress. 


### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- V3 migration track is code complete! Several stories to validate and document the migration.

### PERSI - Ted Young
- Volume Services updated in v2.10 Service Broker API. New API is GA, will be supported with backwards compatibility.
- Work on AWS EFS Volume Driver has begun.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Working on merging container networking changes to Garden. Currently implementing changes to NetIn and NetOut to ensure a network is available to a container when it comes up, as per suggestions from Garden team
- Working with Shannon on the concept of endpoints as it applies to routing and network policies
- Upcoming work around testing scalability and robustness

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
