# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-10-04

## Agenda
* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- We would like to start a new repository under cloudfoundry for UAA JavaScript SDK

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.22.0 and 6.22.1:
  - Some regressions were not caught by our test sets, or for one case, we weren't running all the test sets.
  - With these releases we now have a reduced main help page;
  - Also, users can now use `apt-get install cf-cli` and `yum install cf-cli` to install, and keep up to date, the cf CLI as easy as it's been for Homebrew users on Mac OS X;
  - Finally, the Windows installer now exposes an option to install the cf CLI for just the current user, allowing users without administrator privileges to install the cf CLI.
- Next release will focus on fixing a number of community reported issues.
- Slowly picking up the refactor work again, which had been on hold whilst rebuilding the CI environment.
- The release after will focus on community requested features, as well as prelimenary work (or all of it, if there is a CF release with full support available by the time we get to the epic) for the V3 Tasks commands.
- Started an exploration to discover ways to format CLI output that are easier to parse by scripts.
- Also exploring container to container networking related workflows, and long-lived uaa tokens.
- Planning to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon.

### Garden Core - Julz Friedman

- Debugging Garden-Linux issues unmounting aufs on 4.4 kernels
- Pushed Garden-Runc 0.9.0 to fix iptables dupes
- g-r-r now logs to syslog
- If 0.9.0 proves solid in PWS, will likely become 1.0
- Picked back up "rootless containers" work
- Investigations in to softlayer slowness continue, will try to pair with IBM Germany engineers

### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich
- WCF support verified with smoke tests [126732741](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/126732741)

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finishing 50K-instance scale experiments on GCP, estimating sizing for 250K-instance run
- Started tracks of work to be able to secure the auctioneer and cell rep APIs with mutual TLS
- Added `cfdot` commands to create and delete DesiredLRPs
- Fixed a few bugs around crashes for a SQL-backed BBS


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- routing-release v139 cut this week; includes:
  - support for zipkin trace headers in gorouter
  - http healthchecks on gorouter and tcp router
  - new load-balancing algo in gorouter (least-connections)
  - x-forwarded-proto can be forced to https when TLS termination is handled upstream by a component that is not HTTP compatible
- migration from etcd to relational db for routing api continues
- performance
 - guards in place to prevent performance regressions
 - initial benchmarking milestone considered complete; we're evaluating how to share results
 - pending increases in team strength, we'll begin identifying performance bottlenecks with the goal of improving performance in gorouter
 
### Infrastructure - Amit Gupta

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - Amit Gupta

####  `cf-release`
- Released CF 243 and 244
- We've had a pair experimenting with GCP. We've successfully deployed a CF to GCP. Now we're deploying an internet-less environment.

#### `cf-deployment`
- No changes to `cf-deployment`, but it's worth noting that we now have a pattern for consuming `cf-deployment` and replacing one of the stable releases with it's dev version. This should allow release teams to deploy a stable version of all other releases but a dev version of their release.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Acceptance tests run in a single suite, resulting in a nice speed improvement
- Refactors to internal test helpers library
  - Reduces test pollution
  - Lays groundwork for changing the interface to the helper library, which we're hoping will simplify logic in the acceptance-tests repo

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No changes

#### `nats-release`
- Nats logs can be shipped to a syslog drain
- The nats-release pipeline uses new "version: create" feature on the BOSH CLI, to ensure that the bleeding edge version of nats-release is being deployed. We want the nats pipeline to be an example for the other release teams for consuming `cf-deployment` (see above).

### postgres-release - Amit Gupta

#### `postgres-release`

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel

### Loggregator - Allen Duet

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
 - [CVE-2016-6651 Privilege Escalation in UAA](http://pivotal.io/security/cve-2016-6651) 
 - UAA 3.8.0 work in progress
   - Account Chooser UI
   - Support to propagate the authentication context / authentication method from external providers (SAML & OIDC ) in the ID Token
   - LDAP Start TLS support
   - Bug fixes for SAML Service Provider CRUD
 - Future work
   - OpenID Connection Session Management for Single Logout
   - Rotation of OAuth Client Secrets

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- V3 Migration merged!
- V3 Tasks GA is almost code complete, need to work on documentation

### PERSI - Ted Young
- Toronto brought up to speed on EFS
- Mostly focused on NFS robustness
- We think we may be able to extract out a useful NFS library when we're done

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
