# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-11-01

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Incubating the garden-hcs repo with the Greenhouse team [DC]
- Attic-erizing garden-linux 
- New Project Lead proposals
  - Adam Hevenor (Pivotal) - Loggregator
  - David Sabeti (Pivotal) - Release Integration
  - Adrian Zankich (Pivotal) - Infrastructure
  - Julian Hjortshoj (DELL) - Persi

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.22.2, a patch release addressing a handful of community reported issues. There are two additional reported issues (with `unbind-service` and `delete-orphaned-routes`) for which the commands were refactored into the new architecture first. As at the time of the release the refactor had not finished, the old implementations have been re-enabled and will be replaced in a future release soon.
- Working on the next feature release, which includes V3 tasks, long-lived uaa tokens, creating external users and updating port ranges of router groups.
- Audited all CLI owned public GitHub repos to ensure they have a correct NOTICE file.
- Exploring with a designer how to expose download & upload of staged application artefacts ("droplets").
- Started an exploration to discover ways to format CLI output that are easier to parse by scripts.
- Planning to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) soon.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Upgrading to the 4.4 kernel has been quite painful. We deal with this stuff so the rest of the world doesn't have to.
  - 4.4 Unmount regression: Now finished spiking and start work on long-term workaround for 4.4 unmount issues for garden-runc (only important for nested case - i.e. bosh-lite - since non-nested already works)
  - 4.4 Iptables performance regression: identified a serious performance regression when large numbers of NetOut (ASG) rules are used. Switched to `iptables-restore` and added `BulkNetOut` API to fix.
  - 4.4 Iptables performance regression #2: destroying an iptables chain with lots of rules has become very slow. We believe this is mostly ok in real use but are keeping an eye on it.
  - Identified regressing commits for the above and raised issues upstream.

- Garden-linux officially end-of-lifed, Garden-runC officially 1.0!
  - Few support issues moving people over, but mostly continuing to seem pretty solid
  - Lifecycle activity proposed to move g-l to the attic

- Documentation: 
  - Check out our new Ops Guide! -> https://github.com/cloudfoundry/garden-runc-release/blob/develop/docs/opsguide.md
  - We're on the lookout for feedback about other areas that need more/better documentation, feedback gratefully recieved

- Integration points with GrootFS progressing nicely

### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- Very close to having the Garden acceptance tests running against a Garden-runC/GrootFS deployment
- Have found several complications relating to the need to create both privileged and unprivileged containers, but looks like we're through the worst of that now
- Close to feature parity with equivalent code in Garden-runC
- Up next: metrics and more performance testing

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich

### Diego - Eric Malm

### Routing - Shannon Coen

### Infrastructure - Adrian Zankich

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- Performance improvements to actual state listener processing, consistently under 1s for 13k app instances
- Improved connection usage from HM9K to etcd, spiked to 45k connections on startup, now hovers at 65
- Linux 4.4 improvements, removed flock and increased container reap interval

- Accepted first drop of Isolation Segments, API only

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
