# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-11-12

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

We have a new [versioning table](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/wiki/Versioning-Policy#a-complete-list-of-changes-you-can-expect) which details what constitutes a patch, minor, and major release, and what type of changes and breaking changes you can expect in each of those releases. The table codifies a well trodden pattern and there should be no surprises. The table will ultimately replace the text which has been in place for some time to explain our versioning policy.  Please let us know if you have any feedback. 

**Updates**

-  Continuing on creating and updating the [v7 plugin interface](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/tree/master/plugin/v7) so plugin authors can migrate their plugins to use the v3 API. We are focusing on the methods which will allow plugins to migrate over so that we can garner feedback. Here is a [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ekxnz_HQYrXUFDHCOIwgIwthn7W3MqQ7DmRuKUs3Xuo/edit?usp=sharing) which details our progress.
- Continuing work on metadata: support for labels for routes and domains. Next up is annotations. 
- We've begun work to help our Loggregator friends deprecate Traffic Controller. We've removed support for Traffic Controller for `cf7 push` and will be continuing this work for other commands which reaches out to the logging component. On v6, we plan to remove support for Traffic Controller when our Support Window 


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Laurel Gray


### UAA - Dan Beneke


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Josh Collins


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen

- Routing automatically configured for apps pushed to CF on K8s; map/unmap-route CLI commands work.
- Gabe Rosenhouse will send out an email this week to cf-dev with an update of our progress for CF on K8s
- We continue to fix bugs and address security vulnerabilities discovered in CF on BOSH networking components. 

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Loggregator - Allen Duet


### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
