# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-05-14

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements

- [EM] nominations open for Loggregator and Release Integration project leads


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- working on `6.45` to support `cf oauth-token` with client credentials
- working on completing the `cf login` rewrite

**VAT**

- completed converting the domains resource
- working on supporting droplets on CC API and CLI
- started on the routes resource


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Laurel Gray
- We've been continuing to iterate on our first release which allows users to perform maintenance on single service instances
- We've shifted the team focus to moving the services endpoints in the Cloud Controller from v2 to v3 and the CLI services commands from v6 to v7

### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz


### UAA - Chao Wang
- Released UAA v4.31.0 and v73, please check the breaking change from the release notes for more details: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/uaa/releases/tag/4.31.0

### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Recently completed support for Windows Server 2019 in CFAR, the latest Long-Term Servicing Channel release from Microsoft. This is also the official release for Kubernetes support, already contributed to CFCR.
- Work on enabling a richer container lifecycle in Windows Server 2019 continues, especially regarding a graceful shutdown period for .NET applications.
- Garden Windows continues to contribute support for Envoy on Windows upstream.
- Working on TLS support between GoRouter and Windows containers using nginx until Envoy Windows support is completed.
- Upcoming: Garden Windows and BOSH Windows are planning to retire support for Windows Server 2012 R2 by the end of this year. The older IronFrame pseudo-containerization is inflexible and less secure that the modern Windows Server Containers. Guidance is forthcoming on how to migrate applications.


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Released Diego v2.31.0 after resolving issue with correctness of route-emitter LRP event handling
- Windows cells use autodetected fault domain as availability zone when not on first-class Azure AZs
- Adding indicator protocol specifications for Diego components
- Exploring disk-reporting capabilities as part of making Diego cells more resilient to unexpectedly high disk usage
- Upcoming:
  - Ensure the Diego file-server's app-lifecycle assets are transferred into containers securely (currently over plain HTTP)
  - Exploring options to support longer graceful-shutdown durations for app instances
  - Generating solutions for first-class sidecar support in the BBS API


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen

- In progress: TLS for Routing API
- Coming up: improvements to c2c policy, and dynamic egress policies with IP-based destinations
- In progress: dynamically configured sidecars for client-side load balancing, timeouts, and retries over C2C
- Coming up: mTLS between apps over C2C

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

[v9.5.1 was released](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v9.5.1)

#### Improvements

- `ha_proxy.trusted_domain_cidrs` can now be specified as a base64 encoded blob if desired.

##### Fixes

- Resolved an issue where haproxy failed to start when the `ha_proxy.trusted_domain_cidrs` value was too long

#### Acknowledgements

Thanks @Soha-Albaghdady for the fix!

### Loggregator - Johannes Tuchscherer


### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`
- v8.0 release - deprecates cflinuxfs2 in favor of cflinuxfs3.
- v9.0 release - CVE fix reported by routing team.
- Coming soon 
  - Plan to release v10.0 in June. I will submit to the scope next 2 weeks.
  - Start planning for cf cli v6 deprecation
  - Internally, we are working on improving our pipelines throughput by pre-validating bosh releases. The new pipeline will help reduce build failures in the main pipeline. 
 

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- A new task to delete all bosh deployments.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`
 

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
Bumped [v37](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v37) that upgrades PostgreSQL to [v11.3](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/11/release-11-3.html)


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
