# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-05-28

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

- [EM] Request for approval of Sai Yerram as new Release Integration project lead
- [EM] Request for approval of Fred Krone as new Loggregator project lead


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Laurel Gray


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz


### UAA - Chao Wang


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm
#### Recently Delivered:
- Added a hard-coded 1 hour idle connection timeout to Locket DB connections to be good citizens in CF as components do use a shared DB cluster and connections to that DB are a shared resource
- 1st diego subcomponent integrated with the new flattened AcutalLRP endpoints
- 1st integration of the indicator protocol complete (Locket: locket.ActiveLocks, and locket.ActivePresences)
  - Will roll into the remaining components over the next few months
  - No alert thresholds have been added in this initial implementation
  - As Diego rolls across the other sub-components, we'll be considering threshold values
- Updated the Windows rep job so it will place LRPs on Azure in a truly HA pattern for foundations deployed to Azure with Azure Availability Zones enabled.
#### Coming Soon:
- Enable `cf ssh` for Windows+Linux with 3rd Party Network Plugins
- Add a generalized log tagging mechanism to enable CAPI to pass through additional information in DesiredLRP requests (such as org and space to which an app belongs)
- Provide the auctioneer with more accurate diego-cell disk capacity information to be used in placement decisions
- Secure the downloads of app lifecycle bundles from the Diego file-server to app/task containers


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

[v9.5.2](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v9.5.2) was released
#### New Features

- Custom HTTP responses can be configured using `ha_proxy.custom_http_error_files`. It  takes
  a map of status codes to raw http  responses to send. This allows operators to customize things
  like the 502/503 errors returned by HA Proxy.

##### Acknowledgements

Many thanks to @rodolf2488 and @barakyo for implementing this!

[v9.6.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v9.6.0) was released
#### Improvements
- `ha_proxy.http_request_deny_conditions`  now supports negations of ACLs thanks to @gdenn
   Simply add the `negate: true` field to your ACL to negate it.
- `ha_proxy.cidrs_in_file` has been added to allow users to specify a wide array of ACLs
  that apply to an ACL in the `ha_proxy.http_request_deny_conditions` ACL list, which
  would otherwise be too long for haproxy to start up properly. Take a look at [the example]
  for more details(https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/blob/master/jobs/haproxy/spec#L396-L406).
  Thanks @gdenn for this feature as well!

#### Bug Fixes

- Resolved an issue where the haproxy stop script would fail if haproxy was already stopped.
  Thanks for the fix @domdom82!



### Loggregator - Johannes Tuchscherer


### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`
* v9.1 cf-deployment release
  * Fix that allows use of CredHub's new cert rotation which was introduced in 2.3.0
  * Fixed issue with Silk controller, a job on `diego-api`, unable to send metrics. This was introdued in v7.11 when the deploy-forwarder was inlined.
* Launched pre-develop validation
  * Perfoms fresh deployment on every new release and runs smoke-tests on it.

##### Coming Soon - v10 in EOM June
* Enable route-integrity by default
* Go router talks to UAA via SSL
* Loggergator 3.11 release
* Removal of Log-cache-forwarder
* Remove empty symlinked operations folder

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
* Built a new pipeline to automate deployment.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
* v3.0.0 was released. Use of gomod requires Golang 1.11.
* Fixed a notorious flaky bug.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
