# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-01-22

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements

- [EM] Please avoid clobbering other updates if editing notes file directly in GitHub


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

- [EM] Call for vote to approve Laurel Gray as Services API Project Lead


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- working on `cf login` refactor, exploring `cf set-org-role` and `cf set-space-role` to fix an issue whilst logged in with client credentials, bug fix for Windows 32 bit issues, and `v6.43` which will support a SAPI feature (we are accepting pull requests from them for the feature)
- our minimum CC API supported version for 2019 is CC API 2.100.0/3.35.0. See our [versioning policy](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/wiki/Versioning-Policy#cf-cli-minimum-supported-version) for more information. Functionally, this means the CLI team will be removing code that supports versions of CC API below the minimum version. We will not remove commands until `v7` is released. 
- We have a new [Product cheat sheet](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/wiki/CLI-Product-Specific-Style-Guide) which is meant to be a shorter reference guide to help Contributors/other PMs when they want to issue a pull request against the CLI. We will also be reviewing our main [CF CLI Style Guide](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/wiki/CF-CLI-Style-Guide) to break up the dense material such that we can split it into two guides: engineering and product related. 

**VAT**
- continuing work on `buildpacks` endpoints and CF CLI commands to support creating, reading, updating, and deleting buildpacks.
- up next: `cf push` flag parity, pairing with CC API on server side manifest, and `feature-flag` resources


### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- We have released metadata (label and annotations) for v3 Org, Space, App and Package resources.  Remaining v3 GA resources will contain metadata in our release. 
- We have started work on support for revisions in v3.  Users we will be able rollback to a specific droplet that was deployed at a point in time in the past. We will be pairing with the CLI team to better understand how to expose this new feature to the end user through the CLI.

### Services API - Laurel Gray
- We have been exploring how we might enable an `Independent Services Marketplace` by pulling services out of the Cloud Controller. We're coming to consensus as a team this week (it's complex!), and then we are going to involve our stakeholders (primarily CAPI, CLI) in a broader discussion to share our findings and talk through options.
- We're taking point on creating a basic `generic extensions` experience, which would allow for things like backup and restore of service instances, stopping and starting service instances, etc. We will need to propose a spec change in the OSBAPI group to enable this.

### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz

**Released:**
- Support for client side signed URLs (2.19.0)
- Several fixes around GCP, Azure, Openstack Golang SDKs, and  `DELETE /buildpack_cache/entries/` requests (**thanks to feedback from SAP**, 2.20.0 and 2.22.0)
- Support GET requests proxied through Bits-Service (2.21.0)

**In Progress:**
- Support for Client signed URLs in bits-service-client
- Several chores to simplify our Concourse pipelines and test envs

**Upcoming**:
- Versioning of docker images


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Added more generic container-metric tags for DesiredLRPs for CC to use to distinguish app processes
- Finished working with CAPI to address Windows cases of image-layer path specifications
- Added log lines and metrics to Locket component to diagnose API request expirations more clearly
- SSH proxy connects to CC's TLS server automatically via its BOSH link
- Upcoming: making Diego placement more resilient to unexpectedly high disk usage on cells


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Routing - Shubha Anjur Tupil
- Our pipelines are red, we are experiencing a lot of flakiness with our unit tests and are focussed on fixing these. 


### Container Networking - Jonathan Sirlin


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

[v9.4.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/haproxy-boshrelease/releases) has been released:
```
# Improvements

- Converted HAProxy to start using BPM
- Updated default manifest to use the xenial stemcell
- The default value for the haproxy `keep-alive` timeout is now 6 seconds, to improve compatibility with
  various HTTP clients.
- The `keepalived` job now provides a link including the VIP that keepalived uses
- Added configurable `ha_proxy.max_connections` and `ha_proxy.max_open_files` properties for controlling
  the number of simultaneous HAProxy connections without creating new boshreleases now.
- Fixed an issue with the `ha_proxy.crt_list` property not properly detecting mutual tls settings unless
  the `verify` key was present on every certificate.

# Fixes

- Bumps HAProxy to v1.8.17 to resolve https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-20103
```

### Loggregator - Johannes Tuchscherer

#### log-cache
- stability fixes to the ingest (aka nozzle)

#### loggregator
- great conversation with SAP about improving the handling of noisy neighbors (log spamming apps)
- some further work on the syslog agent performance tuning
- introduced a central scraper that will scrape all prometheus exposition endpoints of the new system metrics agent
- going to start the firehose deprecation process (12 month deprecation window)
- included the indicator protocol for loggregator


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- Plan to make a change to `bbl cleanup-leftovers` to auto-filter in order to prevent accident deletions 


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Bumped [v34](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v34) that fixes a bug in the `bbr-postgres-job` when not using bosh links.
- In progress - Continuous archiving and point-in-time recovery (PITR) support; we are evaluating and comparing open-source solutions. 

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
