# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-08-20

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion



## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Laurel Gray


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz


### UAA - Dan Beneke


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Josh Collins


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

####[v9.7.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases) is out
##### New Features

- Syslog length and format can now be configured via `ha_proxy.log_max_length` and `ha_proxy.log_format`.
  Defaults remain unchanged at 1024 bytes, and rfc3164.

- HAProxy can now bind to the default interface on both IPv4 and IPv6 simultaneously, via the `ha_proxy.v4v6`
  property. When this is set, you must also set the `ha_proxy.binding_ip` to `::` for it to take effect. This
  feature is off by default.


##### Acknowledgements

Thanks go to @cunnie for the IPv6 binding, and @msahihi for the log customization PRs!

####[v9.6.2](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases) is out
##### New Features

- Via `backend_prefer_local_az`, haproxy can now be configured to prefer sending traffic
  to backend servers in the same BOSH AZ as the haproxy server, to save cross-az traffic.
  This option is currently off by default, but will likely become on by default in a future
  release.

##### Acknowledgments

Thanks @h0nIg for the new feature!

### Loggregator - Allen Duet


### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
Bumped [v39](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v39) that upgrades PostgreSQL to version 11.5.

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
