# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-02-19

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

- [EM/SC] Proposal to consolidate Routing and Container Networking projects into a single Networking project
- [EM/SC] Proposal to accept nomination of Shubha Anjur Tupil as the Networking Project Lead


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- Working on releasing `6.43.0` which will include: 
  - SAPI's multi-service feature (thanks SAPI for the pull requests)
  - security fixes whereby if you runn a command in verbose mode, we were not always properly redacting passwords that contain special characters and a separate similiar bug for refresh tokens
  - big fix for `cf curl`, now refresh tokens work properly for V3 CC API endpoints
  - a feature for `cf curl`: a new `--fail` flag which returns a special exit code for server errors
- Continuing on reviewing the `login`, writing integration tests and spikes to determine whether we need to refactor
- Spiked on a solution for plugin issues whereby the plugin arch does not call V3 or refactored V2 endpoints
 
 
**VAT**

- working on server side manifests
- `push` flag parity
- finishing up converting `buildpacks` resource to `V3`
- working on up converting `feature flag` resource to `V3`


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Shipped metadata support for all V3 GA endpoints. Working with CLI team to expose a CLI UX for adding and editing metadata on resources
- Continuing work on adding revisions for deployments in V3.  Working with CLI team to expose CLI UX for viewing and rolling back to a revision for an app.
- Starting work to support sidecar processes. Spiking to determine engineering work needed to support the use cases the team has defined.

### Services API - Laurel Gray
- Finished **multi-service registration** work, which will go out in the next CLI release (slotted for this week)
- Working on **multi-CF deployment support** for services:
  - invalidated our original prototype's approach which used the CF CLI `cf services` command
  - validated the need for CF users to be able to share service instances across CF deployments
  - we're next going to prototype out a new possible solution and test again with users in the community
- We're also testing a prototype that would allow developers to **update one service instance** 
- Reach out if you're interested in providing feedback on our prototypes or connecting us to someone who is!

### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz

**Released:**
- Released 2.23.0 & 2.24.0 which contain several small improvements most notably more helpful logging for the Azure backend where we still have some problems

**In Progress:**
- Support for Client signed URLs in bits-service-client
- Provide Bits-Service docker image without eirinifs.tar in it
- Defining Bits-Service Cloud-Controller interaction with v3.

### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Lots of velocity eaten up by kernel/OS issues, especially around systemd - largely fixed now
- CPU Entitlements Milestone One shipped!
- Focus now on shipping ContainerD Processes support, then merging Grootfs upstream
- Shipped runC patch for CVE (although garden was protected out-of-the-box by good defaults \o/)

### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman

- Focusing on 'Producticizing & Shipping'
- Added CPU share support, next work is other limits, high availability, security validation and performance testing 
- Some work and spiking on how to support bosh workflows for operators without too much dev burden
- Working on PR to enable 'native' eirini staging
- Team now expanded to 3 pairs in Europe (2 IBM, 2 SAP, 2 Pivots) + some separate effort from Google and IBM engineers in NA

### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Starting work integrating with Windows Server 2019, the latest long-term servicing release of Windows Server. We'll likely stick to this release for a while. Incidentally, this is also the official Kubernetes supported release of Windows.
- Finised work on supporting insertion of operator-provided trusted-CA certs into the rootfs at deploy time. This maintains the security posture of the running container while enabling an enterprise security feature.
- Continuing to invest in the support of Envoy. Included Visual Studio 2017 C++ redistributable package in the rootfs for this support.
- Continuing work on supporting the dynamic egress feature and corollary zero-downtime ASG policy changes.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Working on supporting schema version 2 Docker image manifests when staging Docker-image-based apps
- Updating the Diego BBS API messages from protobuf version 2 to version 3
- Revamping the interface to the cloudfoundry/cfhttp package to allow for easier HTTP client configuration
- Upcoming: still planning to investigate ways to make Diego placement more resilient to unexpectedly high disk usage on cells


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Container Networking - Jonathan Sirlin


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks
- v9.4.2 release https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v9.4.2.
  Contains a fix for an issue encountered by keepalived in certain openstack environments with DHCP


### Loggregator - Johannes Tuchscherer

- Announced deprecation of firehose. Still trying to determine the correct deprecation window. Feedback on the mailing list pointstowards the need for a longer deprecation
- CLI plugin to connect to the log-stream endpoint
- New agent for application syslog drain is now available as an ops-file in cf-d
- /containermetrics endpoint removed
- New releases for loggregator, loggregator-agent and log-cache


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- We cut a release on bbl (v7.1.0) which fixes a bug when upgrading from bbl v6.x.x with CF LBs. To avoid having more people run into this bug, we pulled all bbl v7.0.x releases.


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- Added "upload stemcells" functionality to each `bosh-deploy` task variant and deprecated `bosh-upload-stemcell-from-cf-deployment` task.
- New `open-asgs-for-bosh-instance-group` - providing uniform approach for setting up ASG's in pipelines (eg: for UAA and CredHub)


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- Fixed a bug causing smoke-tests to leak Orgs/Spaces when tests failed --- [cf-smoke-tests-release v40.0.45](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-smoke-tests-release/releases/tag/40.0.45)

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
