# Runtime PMC Meeting 2019-12-10

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion

- [EM] Request confirmation of Kartik Lunkad as new Garden-Windows project lead
  - confirmed!
- [EM] Propose cancelling the Dec 24 PMC meeting on account of Christmas Eve
- [EM] Assembling [index of "CF for K8s" CFF resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uPLab3F0LwbpV4ryGtaERfxdOx0Q4BCvbS8J-dVG29g/edit); will broadcast on cf-dev shortly, so please make any project-related updates soon


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### CAPI - Scott Sisil

- Continuing work to migrate capi release components from bosh releases to OCI deployable formats
- Created first successful build with kpack via cloud_controller_ng
- Released CAPI release 1.89 on 12/6


### Services API - Laurel Gray


### UAA - Dan Beneke

- Addressed a memory issue rooted in the session mgmt changes we originally introduced in v74.4.0.  Sessions (held in memory) were not being purged correctly.  The session purge fix was offered in v74.12.0.
- UAA now reports its health to bosh-dns in the same way it reports to route-registrar.  Before v74.11.0, UAA didn't report health to bosh-dns at all, so no corrective actions were possible.

### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - Kartik Lunkad
- Exploring how we can set memory and cpu limits for side-cars with Windows containers. Linux side-cars share the memory limit with the application. Multiple windows containers cannot share the memory and cpu limits.


### Diego - Josh Collins
#### To be released in a near-term Diego-Release:
- Configurable app logging rate limits:
  - configurable rate limit - [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/170087515)
  - rate limit exceeded metric - [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/170092226)
  - app exceeded rate limit log message - [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/170092847)
#### Upcoming
- Add all diego component metrics to their respective indicator protocol template files, and type-cast each appropriately - [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/169576244)



### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Networking - Shannon Coen

- Basic ingress routing to apps and system components working with CF4K8s. Apps devs can use cf CLI commands to manage routing as they do today on CF4BOSH. System component authors can leverage K8s APIs to configure routing for platform APIs.
- Scalability testing has reached confidence that control plane propagation (time from `cf map-route` to application being routable) is within targets (under 5s, 95% of the time) at 1000 apps, so we'll increase the scale of our tests toward the GA target of 10,000 apps.


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Loggregator - Jesse Weaver

- Working on K8s-native logging; no prototypes to release yet, but centering around idea of a FluentD per node to forward logs for application pods and accept forwarded logs on behalf of apps (for teams like networking and CAPI).
- Working with CLI team to help move CLI to reading logs from Log Cache (to allow Traffic Controller deprecation, and eventual removal of the firehose).

### Infrastructure - Preethi Varambally

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Sai Yerram

#### `cf-deployment`
- Establish release cadence of twice a week minor releases. Early feedback is good and in process of collecting additional feedback from platform eng / internal teams.
- Automated stemcells releases is a win.
- No major releases scheduled yet


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Working on migrating cf-acceptance tests to the new CLI V7

#### `cf-k8s`
- On going research to build a `cf-k8s` artifact

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
