# Runtime PMC Meeting 2016-11-16

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review

## Announcements
Plan to notify about Project Lead openings for Greenhouse and GrootFS teams and request for nominations to cf-dev [Dieu Cao]

## PMC Lifecycle Activities
None

## Discussion
IBM planning on proposing changes to the Service Broker spec for flowing through a user identifier on requests. [Michael Fraenkel]

## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Prettified the [CLI repo readme](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/blob/master/README.md) with CFF logo and ToC.
  Please take a look & copy & paste to yours what you like!  
  (Molten logo made available by CFF in a GH repo for this usage)
- Nearing completion of one-off task related commands. CAPI is evaluating the edge builds and providing feedback.  
 In the meantime we're adding long-lived uaa tokens, creation of external users and updating of port ranges of router groups before we release.
- Progressing well on exposing staged application artefacts ("droplets") upload UX.
- Planning to remove the loggregator consumer library (see [plan here](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/archives/list/cf-dev@lists.cloudfoundry.org/message/JISQUXZVSRQELIFWAJ7GIY2YSUWQLXE7/)) in the release after the next one.

### Garden - Julz Friedman

### GrootFS - Will Pragnell

- Lots of PRs to Garden-runC to integrate, very close to a completely green run of GATs
- Improved logging and error messages
- About to being work on emitting metrics

### Greenhouse - David Morhovich
- Updated to golang 1.7
- Updated install script generator to support new rep arguments

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Will release Diego v1.0 soon!
- Finished 250K-instance experiment successfully against Postgres, running a shorter one against MySQL as well
- Finished work to secure cell rep API with TLS
- Fixed a few SQL-related bugs
- Updated documentation to deprecate etcd-only mode, remove garden-linux
- Adopting cf-deployment in a pipeline environment

### Routing - Shannon Coen

- Routing-release 0.141.0 shipped with support for MySQL and PostgreSQL as replacement backing stores for the Routing API. Upgrading to this or a future version will migrate data from Etcd without downtime. 
- Team is profiling Gorouter and attempting changes with the goal of improving throughput and minimizing latency
- First blog post documenting our journey so far is coming soon

### Infrastructure - Adrian Zankich

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)

### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Cut v246
- Added support for dotnet-core buildpack

#### `cf-deployment`
- Finished migration spike
- Fixing small issues based on feedback from other teams (things like erroneous consul routes and update watch times)
- Consume buildpacks from their individual releases
- Improve README and other docs to enable other teams to dog-food

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Audited binaries for EAR compliance
- Added test for dotnet-core buildpack
- Added test for container networking

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No changes

#### `nats-release`
- No changes

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

#### `postgres-release`
- Started work on improving PostgreSQL version upgrade procedure to consume less disk space
- Continuing work on ci pipeline to optimise it

### Runtime OG - Michael Fraenkel
- No updates

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Work in in flight to implement gRPC for the Metron to Doppler connection 
- Note: ^^ this deprecates the TCP / TLS configuration and a deprecation notice was sent out to the CF-DEV list
- Finishing up work to more our CI environment onto GCP

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

### CAPI - Nicholas Calugar
- Continuing work on rate limiter for Cloud Controller
- Bumped to Golang 1.7 for CC-Bridge
- Work on elminating the CC-Bridge is going well, sorting out security around Diego calling back to CC
- PRs for Isolation Segments are being merged

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj
- work with LDS continues on kerberized NFS
- new work on NFSv3 with support for app-specific UIDs (& LDAP?)
- volume services available in OSS PCFDev!
- discussions with Kubernetes and Mesosphere on common volume interface standard to continue in early december.

### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Announced netman-release version 0.6.0 last week to the community. It has all the features to enable policy-driven direct container to container communication.
- Worked on performance enhancements, implemented changes to the way iptables rules are updated and saw a significant improvement in enforce time
- Made a variety of security related fixes. 

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser

- Simplification of our pipeline 
- Various PRs to the CAPI team to enable end-to-end singed URLs for BITS
- Finishing up implementation of signed URLs in the bits-service itself
- Publishing CC’s BIts-Service-Client as a gem on rubygems to ease further development (gem is the contract) 
