# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-07-24

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- No major changes. Currently still working on releasing `6.38.0` with the following features: pushing with multiple buildpacks using a single command, new `cf app` display backed by the v3 cc api, invocation timeout configuration, support for SOCKS5, bump to Golang 1.10.3, support for tags for user provided instances, Diego cell ID displays in `cf events`, new translations


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- In the process of providing Windows Server version 1803 rootfs and releases for cf-deployment.
- Starting collaboration with Buildpacks team on HWC Buildpack to deliver more .NET features.
- Soon to ship HTTP compression support for `hwc.exe`.
- Envoy Windows work is progressing with the Envoy community. Several PRs in the works to incorporate the Windows build system into the main repo.
- Work scoped to enable the same 10-second graceful shutdown process on Windows containers that exists on Linux.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finishing initial work on BBS API and LRP convergence changes to support maintaining routability of app instances when cells lose presence temporarily
- Finishing Diego work to allow operators to restrict container ingress only to authenticated clients, building on top of route integrity
- Improved Xenial-stemcell integration by making rep kernel-parameter tuning explicit; will change to be the same for other jobs soon
- Will start work soon on BBS API changes for more declarative downloads, to enable Garden experiments with OCI images


### Routing - Shubha Anjur Tupil 
Istio 
- Close to delivering scaling with 500 routes and 500 apps. Next step is to test with 500 apps and 3000 instances. 
- Working on solutions to limit the number of routes we synch from Diego and CC (to be able to push to PWS before reaching PWS scale without taking down the whole control plane)

TOB 
- BPM routing components (https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1358110/search?q=label%3A%22bpm%22)
- /varz deprecation 
- Secure Gorouter to CC components (https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/158512757)


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- no changes

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- bbl print-env supports name and bucket, facilitating local usage of bbl-state-resource (concourse) environments
- Recent increased focus on issues and PRs: over a dozen resolved in the last two weeks.


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`



### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Finishing server side application manifests
- Working on rolling application updates
- Working on integrating perm with cc

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

- CAPI work for async unbind is complete
- Started exploring how we can handle registering multiple service brokers that expose services of the same name
- OSBAPI v2.14 has just been released, so we have made sure we are fully compatible with the changes


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown

* No updates.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran/Preethi Varambally

- We started working on adding support for dynamic egress policies to address concerns around ASGs needing app restarts to be applied. We shared the [feature narrative](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cXaw6_KZHrZzexLTdPNTU-E_6nRf9pZwIL6LPqA2jAQ/edit?usp=sharing) with the CF community.
- We completed work on moving all container networking components to use BPM for isolation.
- We are working towards making Polyglot Service Discovery GA.


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Simon Moser

