# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-02-07

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Deployed first round of Windows 2016 Diego cells to PWS as testing before GA in cf-deployment. Has already helped with identifying bugs in BOSH DNS and BOSH SSH.
- winc-network can now apply outbound network bandwidths.
- Explored .profile/.profile.d equivalents for BAL
- Starting work on supporting Integrated Windows Authentication for .NET apps. Requires joining Windows cells to an Active Directory domain and x-team collab with BOSH Windows team.
- Declarative healthcheck now runs in a genuine sidecar container on Windows.
- Context Path Routing is now supported for .NET applications. CF context path routing config is passed into the hwc configuration.
- groot-windows can pull, unpack, and cache Docker and OCI images.
- Fixes to BOSH DNS on Windows.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Wrapping up setup work to prepare for Diego v2.0 release:
	- Consolidating TLS configuration in preparation for components to required TLS
	- Preparing to make Locket the default lock and cell-registration provider
	- Removing deprecated and obsolete properties
- Finished work on new upgrade-compatibility test suite
- Declared instance-identity credentials no longer experimental
- Fixed another case in which the cell rep could hang indefinitely when draining
- `lager` library tagged vith v1.0.0 to be compatible with Golang `dep` tool


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
* No Changes

#### `etcd-release`
* As of last week there will be no new releases of CF that contain etcd-release.
* We're still in #infrastructure on CF slack to answer etcd-release questions, but consider using CFCR's etcd-release if you still have need of etcd-release.

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
* 6.0 is released! We now consider the state directory file structure a stable API and will not change it without a major release.
* We recorded a presentation about bbl. We will release it to cf-dev mailing list shortly and pin it in #bbl-users on CF slack.
* We are investigating Credential Storage options and are interested in hearing from the community what credential stores they like to use or have seen operators using before.


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara

- Released [v25](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v25) that upgrades postgres to 9.6.6.
- Released [v26](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v26) that moves the creation of roles and databases to the post-start script. If an error occurs while creating a database or a database extension or creating/updating a role, the bosh deployment will fail.

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

Unfortunately same update as 23 January.
- We have added a variety of fixes to our `download-logs` script, including using `bosh ssh` rather than regular `ssh`.

cf-mysql-release v36.11.0
- We've had some small blockers in shipping v36.11.0.
- Found a bug in ARP, hope is to deprecate this (redundant?) feature and require Operators ebable the built-in BOSH [flush-arp](https://bosh.io/docs/flush-arp.html) feature.
- Expanded scope to include "read-only user" bindings (service broker only).
- Plan to ship ASAP to include MariaDB 10.1.30 and other dependency updates.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Rapid itteration on log-cache and log-cache-cli plugin
- Finishing touches on the cf-drain-cli plugin
- Itterated on some feedback for the noisy nieghbor nozzle feedback and developed a cli-plugin


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Permissions - Christopher Brown


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- The team is wrapping up work on phase 1 of service discovery for user provided service names. Watch out for an announcement soon on the CF mailing list
- The next phase of service discovery will tackle addign Envoy to the data path to provide advanced features like support for ports, circuit breaking, client side load balancing etc. We are looking for feedback from operators on which features are critical to prioritize. 


### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - V3 app features (multi-process, multi-buildpack) exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.32.0)
|| - Container networking exposed in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.30.0)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
