# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-01-23

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
- Jay Badenhope nominated and accepted the cf CLI project lead position.

## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Jay Badenhope
- Released cf CLI 6.34.1 ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.34.1)):
  - Fixed two regressions from 6.34.0
  - Updated a value in `--random-route`
- Shared and received comments on Value Substitution proposal (as a replacement for deprecated app manifest inheritance)
- Continued acceptance on shared service commands
- Continued investigation on how we'll make "v3" app commands the default; planning to detect the user's CC version and execute commands as v2 or v3 on command-by-command basis (not all at once); partnered with CAPI on a server side app manifest proposal
- Started development work on authentication with client id & secret (no user), with input from UAA
- Features starting soon:
   - Droplet upload
- Further out:
  - Fetch service instance and binding parameters
  - Internationalization
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Last login time displayed on `login`


### Garden - Julz Friedman

  - Merged groot and garden! New release opts everyone in to groot (with a deprecated ability to opt back in to -shed).
  - Rootless and OCI phase 1 functionally complete, waiting for benchmarks and feedback from real environments
    - Need some way to opt a portion of cells in to OCI phase 2, CC A/B flag?
  - Peas MVP shipped and being used, finishing up remaining pea features (ability to set specific memory/cpu limits for peas)
  - Shipped running-on-windows support and new libgroot to allow easy writing of custom rootfs managers (i.e. for windows)
  - Support for umask-hardened stemcells and xenial stemcells
    - Give us xenial please.
     - pretty please?
  - Dedicating a pair to upstream work (runc, containers/image) when bandwidth allows
  - Succesful spike on a top-level OCI Image endpoint to export droplets as OCI images for "OCI Phase 2" experiments
  - Investigating adding support for optionally integrating with containerd when available on a cell, would allow some nice operator features and integration with CFCR etc.

### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Continuing work on Groot for Windows
- Starting to develop against Windows Server v1803 which has process limits for Windows Containers and other nifty features.
- Planning on implementing volume services, starting with SMB.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing clean-up work to prepare for Diego v2.0 release
- Continuing work on new upgrade-compatibility test suite
- Reduced memory overhead of running Envoy sidecar by improving certificate-rotation procedure
- Fixed nondeterministic bug in `CF_INSTANCE_PORT` assignment


### Routing - Shannon Coen

- 0.171.0
  - Added support for websockets over TLS to backends
  - BOSH link can be used to expose Routing API OAuth client ID and secret for registration client in CF Container Runtime
- Istio
  - Edge Envoy in Istio-release can be dynamically configured via Copilot and Pilot
  - Beginning PRs to have CC send routes to Copilot
- Routing team probably taking over responsibility for nats-release from Release Integration

### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- No updates
#### `etcd-release`
- No updates
#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- 6.0 feature complete (all deprecation warnings are removed)
- Bug fix for loadbalancers for installing Concourse on Azure
- Beginning secure credential storage epics


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`
- Full steam ahead for deprecation at the end of the month.

#### `cf-deployment`
- We'll likely finish work this week to provide tools for migrating internal services -- specifically, Postgres, WebDAV, and HAProxy.
  This should allow operators to migrate production environments on IaaSes that don't provide load balancing or data services.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Roadmap: Finally planning to tackle some CATs work. We'd like to make serious changes to CATs, including reorganization, addressing flakiness, improving the UX and debug-ability, etc. We're actively looking for feedback.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No changes

#### `nats-release`
- No changes


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Completed concourse upgrade pipeline for cf-deployment
- Successfully tested postgres-release with umask stemcell
- Reworking roles and databases creation.
- Going to upgrade postgres to 9.6.6. This will drop support for upgrading from PostgreSQL 9.6.2.

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks
- v8.6.0 release
  - tcp-routing support. HAProxy can now consume the tcp-routing link from the routing-release.
  - Ports used by HAProxy for this can be controlled via the ha_proxy.tcp_routing.port_range property. many thanks to Iryna Shustava for the feature

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

cf-mysql-release v36.11.0
- We've had some small blockers in shipping v36.11.0.
- Found a bug in ARP, hope is to deprecate this (redundant?) feature and require Operators ebable the built-in BOSH [flush-arp](https://bosh.io/docs/flush-arp.html) feature.
- Expanded scope to include "read-only user" bindings (service broker only).
- Plan to ship ASAP to include MariaDB 10.1.30 and other dependency updates.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
**Shpping New Stuff**
- Released the [Noisy Neighbor Nozzle 1.0 Build](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/noisy-neighbor-nozzle-release)
- cf-deployment now include the [cf-drain-cli](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-drain-cli/releases/tag/v0.2) support.

**Upcoming**
- Spiking deploying istio on our "playground" environment
- Working through some final features on [log-cache](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/log-cache-release) and the [log-cache-cli](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/log-cache-cli)

### UAA - Sree Tummidi

- Working towards UAA 4.9.0 Release
  - Support for OIDC Session Management (adhere to RFC for session id calculation)
  - MFA Audit events
  - Allow management of default zone identity providers via API
  - UAA Metrics documentation
  

### CAPI - Zach Robinson

- Incepting server side manifests
- Working with Networking team on service discovery

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

- Service instance sharing is experimental in the latest CF deployment ([v1.9.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-deployment/releases/tag/v1.9.0)). CF CLI build that supports this coming soon.
- Work has begun on allowing developers to fetch the configuration parameters used to configure service instances and service bindings (two new CAPI endpoints). See the associated OSBAPI change [here](https://github.com/openservicebrokerapi/servicebroker/pull/333).
- Next up will be supporting asynchronous binding creation. This will be similar to the asynchronous service instance provisioning workflow, except the new "GET" endpoint will be used to fetch `credentials` and other binding information (rather than relying on the `/last_operation` endpoint).


### Permissions - Christopher Brown

* We're putting down our previous tracks (migration tooling and Cloud
  Controller changes) to perform some performance experiments to see if our
  current approach will work for the the list endpoints of Cloud Controllers in
  large deployments.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Getting ready to deploy phase 0 of service discovery to PWS. We will also be sending an update to the community on how to enable the experimental ops-file for service discovery
- We start pairing with the CAPI team on phase 1 of service discovery this week
- Upcoming work involves splitting up cf-networking-release into core and swappable components to make it easier for third party networking plugins to reason about integrating

### Bits-Service - Simon Moser
- Analysed & fixed performance issue with Rel-Int 
- added various additional metrics during that exercise 
- Local NFS backend is broken with a recent change, working through to make it work 
- Discussions & design with CAPI on Resource Matching for V3 Push

## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - cf-deployment GA'd: cf-release deprecation period ends at end of month ([email](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/g/cf-dev/message/7641))
||
*Soon* | - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (awaiting CLI build)
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - Make experimental v3 app commands users' default commands
|| - Fetching service instance and binding configuration parameters (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
