# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-07-10

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished exploration of BBS API changes for more declarative downloads to enable Garden experiments with OCI images, will start that work soon
- Continuing work on BBS API and LRP convergence changes to support maintaining routability of app instances when cells lose presence temporarily
- Diego file server returns ETag header with asset checksum to ensure cells invalidate lifecycle bundles when compiled releases have older dates
- Diego components fail on startup if they cannot connect to their local metron agent
  - Seems to cause Windows components not to start reliably on some IaaSes, currently investigating with the Garden-Windows team
- Fixed a goroutine leak in the rep resulting from some internal refactoring
- Will start work soon to allow operators to restrict container ingress only to authenticated clients, building on top of route integrity


### Routing - Shubha Tupil
Istio
- The routing team has a track to contribute to upstream Istio networking. This will help us build credibility in that community and have deeper context. In the long term this should help all Cloud Foundry teams working with Istio.
- We have decided to pause working on http2 since we learned that [upgrading h2c connections is not yet implemented in Envoy](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/1502) for us to support http2 without app developers explicitly configuring an app as http2. We are working with CAPI and CLI to instead prioritize and tee out the stories for Weighted Routing.
- Continue working on scaling control plane, but we have decided to explore if we can filter out the number of routes that we synch with from Diego and CAPI so we don't have to reach PWS scale to have a way to push out a new feature.

Current Routing Tier
- Gorouter/TCP Router - tested the Xenial stemcell, BBR with TLS to backends enabled. Currently foccussed on bug fixes, this has delayed using BPM for Gorouter jobs.


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

No significant updates.


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`



### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

8.8.0 is out, based off a PR from @stefanlay, adds additional support for deny ACLs that are more flexible than the internal-only-ciders + internal-sites properties.

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia

- [pxc-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/pxc-release) v0.11.0 coming soon, including a bump to Percona XtraDB Cluster v5.7.22.
  - Current track of work is to split out Galera-specific jobs to make pxc-release more suitable for single-node and other topologies.
  - Planning to commit a large re-organization of property names before going 1.0.0, so be ready for changes in v0.11.0 and later.
- Ongoing support for [cf-mysql-release](http://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-mysql-release) coming in v36.16.
  - Includes several PRs from the community, and dependency bumps for security.

### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- [cf drain cli 1.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-drain-cli) - includes first supported verion of the space drain feature
- Log Cace GA is blocked on Bosh DNS GA
- Major deprecation plans upcoming:
  - We are going to be moving metron out of loggregator-release and into loggregator-agent release
  - With GA of log-cache we are scpoing a plan to deprecate the Traffic Controller process  


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

* Still working on asynchronous bindings (almost done!)

### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown

* No updates from last time.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Simon Moser

Release bits-servce 2.6.0 yesterday 

- Expose /app_stash/matches as public endpoint through signed URLs (#153176709)
- Client can specify matched resources when uploading to /packages. /app_stash/bundles is now deprecated (#157920860)
- Introduce experimental support for Alibaba Cloud Storage (#157920860)
- Bad requests (including non-existing endpoints) don't emit any metrics other thanstatus-4xx (#158526741)
- Various improvements on config file input validation

Fixes

- Log low-level errors happening in Go http server as error, not info
- Properly use default value for AWS region when it is not specified (#158658908)
- Remove noisy TLS Handshake error from 127.0.0.1 in log files coming from consul agent health check (#158140121)

## CF Feature Roadmap Review



Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* |
|| - Released service instance sharing (CLI and SAPI) and service account authorization (CLI and UAA)
|| - Fetching service instances and bindings (Services API)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
|| - Async service binding creation and deletion (Services API)
|| - Droplet upload, variable substitution, and BOSH release (CLI)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Server side app manifest (CAPI, CLI)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
