# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-11-27

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

* Working through CLI refactors to unblock the [`multi-service-registration`](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_OBnFCsL3ru43PEXocsCc3EuGaM0YLHjr0iAoXnakt4) track
* Started working on our CAPI v3 endpoints!
  * `GET /v3/service_brokers` is in progress, the rest of the service broker related endpoints are up next
  * You can track the SAPI team's progress [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1h5FPUr6xOUxwTNLGdi3Htg5vKCMa-oPmZCzqb-FKB9Q)
* Laurel Gray is PM-pairing with Matt! 👋


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Working with Diego and Buildpacks on introducing a "windows" stack to replace "windows2016" as we work on Windows Server 2019 support.

### Diego - Eric Malm


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Container Networking - Preethi Varambally/Jonathan Sirlin
- We added a bosh property to allow operators to use Container to container networking without creating network policies.
- We are working on adding CLI support for configuring C2C policies across spaces. This is only available via APIs currently.
- We are working on Istio integration to support ingress traffic from the istio-router and between containers via Envoy side car. 
- We are working on adding features such as staging/running support, default policies, traffic logging etc into the new dynamic egress policy configuration to achieve parity with ASGs.
- We are continuing to explore adding capability for C2C policy enforcement through app manifest and plan to incept on it next week.


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Loggregator - Johannes Tuchscherer


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- added `--debug` param to the `bbl-up` task optionally allow developers to save debug output to a log file rather than bbl-up.txt so the debug info is persisted beyond the life of the concourse container. 


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Released [v32](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v32) that upgrades PostgreSQL to version 11.1.

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
