# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-04-03

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau



### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Support for Windows Server Containers and Windows 2016 is GA in cf-deployment as of v1.12!
- Exploring garden.Process.Attach() to support Windows-based Concourse workers.
- Started exploration of containerD support in collaboration with Garden team.
- Started exploration of necessary networking features to support C2C networking for Windows-hosted apps. 
- Fixed a bug in the new launcher that broke Windows environment variables that contain values with newlines.


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Diego components can opt into more readable lager logs
- Identified issue with graceful shutdown of Envoy listeners; filed [envoy #2920](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/2920)
- Added more specific advice on Diego component scaling and performance tuning
- Tightened default cipher suites, MACs, and key exchange algorithms for CF SSH
- Starting work to improve resilience of Task placement to insufficient resources
- Exploring ways to maintain routability of app instances when cells lose presence


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)



### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks




### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor


### UAA - Sree Tummidi



### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney

- Fetching route service configuration parameters is in the latest CF deployment
- Still working on asynchronous binding and unbinding
- We're developing a broker proxy application for Google's hosted service broker that handles their special authentication flow


### Permissions - Christopher Brown



### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- Introduced and fixed a [CVE](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/cve-2018-1267/) in silk-release that was introduced as part of adding multiple interface support. cf-networking-release is not affected. 
- Working on multiple interface support for the Softlayer CPI, we had to revert the changes to apply ASGs on multiple interfaces due to the CVE
- silk-release is running on PWS using experimental ops files, next we will modify cf-deployment to use silk-release. cf-networking-release 2.0 and silk-release 1.0 will be released after this
- The team started working on our first [story](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1498342/stories/156282604) to add Envoy to the data path for c2c traffic


### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review



Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | 
|| - Released service instance sharing (CLI and SAPI) and service account authorization (CLI and UAA)
|| - Fetching service instances and bindings (Services API)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
|| - Async service binding creation and deletion (Services API)
|| - Droplet upload, variable substitution, and BOSH release (CLI)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Server side app manifest (CAPI, CLI)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
