# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-10-02

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements
* Pivotal is nominating Johannes Tuchscherer as new PM for Loggregator.


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- released [6.39.1](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.39.1), which includes a bug fix for `cf push` and passing in the `-s` flag
- currently refactoring `create-space` to work on a bug related to using client credentials and assigning space roles
- working on adding the `details` field back to the table for `cf app` so that users can view app failures


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Working on rolling application updates
- Starting metadata for API resources work

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz

- Released Bits-Service 2.12.0:
    - Introduce AWS Server Side Encryption (AES256 and aws:kms)
    - Introduce AWS IAM instance profiles
- Provide additional blobstore backends for cf-deployment (Pre-req for GA)
- Finished PoC for Bits-Service as OCI image registry for Eirini

### UAA - Chao Wang
- Fixed refresh token grant to not specify response_type for id_token
- Fixed authorization code grant to not specify response_type for id_token
- Fixed not honor Accept: application/json when defaultIdentityProvider is set

### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- We have an alpha build of Envoy Windows being built in our pipeline. It deploys successfully on CF in Windows container sidecars. We may see a demo at CF Summit EU!
- We're collaborating with Container Networking on dynamic egress.
- Looking forward to usable a Windows Server 2019 build that aims to offer a 5-second graceful container shutdown, improved HNS API, etc.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Mostly finished work in BBS in support of ActualLRP list endpoints and instance-specific events
- Also nearly done adding metrics to the BBS to report counts of suspect ActualLRP records periodically
- Fixed some edge cases around Envoy proxy graceful-shutdown by sleeping for 5 seconds
- Upgraded diego-release to Golang 1.11
- Tweaked Locket queries-in-flight metric to report maximum number of concurrent queries during reporting period


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Container Networking - Preethi Varambally
- We have completed work on adding the "happy path" support to allow adding and deleting destination objects for external services and egress policies at the app and space levels.
- We are continuing to explore adding capability for C2C policy enforcement through app manifest.
- We are planning to begin work on Istio integration to support container to container traffic via Envoy side car.


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Finished up BPM work
- Isolated log-cache
- Getting the agent based syslog [proposal together](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ufwv33XEDpSLTjEYDnjQKC3KZ-igVn4WQE3o_SJmtYM/edit)


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- Azure: We've been merging a lot of patches from Microsoft. Thanks, Microsoft!
- vSphere: We're exploring a change to allow one to use BBL in a vcenter without resource pools
- GCP: We've made a change to the backing pools to match the number of gorouters created by default in cf-deployment


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`
- Consul removed, Xennial made default, and PXC GA'd in CF-D v5.0.0
- Bits-Service will GA in CF-D v5.1.0

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Have begun CATs user observations/interviews for UX improvements.
- Python fixture app updated to be multi-threaded [PR](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-acceptance-tests/pull/337)
- The cf-auth retry logic added previously hasn't resolved the timeout issues so we've added more verbose logging in cf-test-helpers for the command to troubleshoot.


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Extending backup and restore feature.

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
