# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-06-12

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- Published v6.37.0 with variable substitution feature
- Working in integrating v3 server side manifest work that we paired with Capi on
- Working on buildpacks association with stacks; we will be refactoring buildpacks related commands
- Survey was sent out about making the current cf app display default to use the v3-app display to unblock the multiple buildpacks epic 


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Put down the containerd work for now. 
- Working on a Bazel + Visual Studio based build system for Envoy to begin contributing upstream.
- Deployed Istio as a first step to understand requirements for a Windows implememtation.
- Starting our push to ship runtime bits for Windows Server 1803, which will provide better network security.
- Confirmed that IPsec is broken for Windows Server Containers. Working with Microsoft on this issue.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Finished exploration of BBS API changes to support maintaining routability of app instances when cells lose presence temporarily, starting track of stories with API changes
- Exploring BBS API changes for more declarative downloads to enable Garden experiments with OCI images
- Cell rep rejects Task instead of failing it when container creation fails, allowing BBS to retry placing it
- Fixing issue with Diego file-server returning stale app-lifecycle assets when releases are pre-compiled
- Validating compatibility of Diego components with Xenial-based stemcells
- Preparing to switch one Diego CI environment to run Garden in rootless mode on Linux Diego cells


### Routing - Shannon Coen/ Shubha Tupil

- Isito/CF Integration 
  - Push to PWS to get early user feedback and de-risk scaling 
    - Map/Unmap/Create/Delete route are now supported using envoy as the edge route and Istio control plane: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/151465691
    - Context path routing is now supported 
    - Exploring supporting HTTP/2 support: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/154620090
    - Started on creating a performance testing framework to identify bottlenecks: https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/1358110 (label: scaling)
  
- Gorouter/TCP Router 
  - We are working on fixing a bug to prune routes when TLS handshake fails
  - Xenial stemcell bump - performance testing against the new stemcell 


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- We're testing consul-release's support of Xenial.

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- We will release in BBL 6.8, experimental support for the virtualbox IaaS. We intentionally did not document it; it only works if you also deploy the lite plan-patch. If you have a usecase for this IaaS we'd be interested in hearing from you.
- We're working on extending `bbl rotate` to support rotating the Director API and nats certs.


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`



### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Permissions - Christopher Brown

* No large updates to the Perm service itself. Authentication work is ongoing.
* We're going to keep iterating on a way to effectively track the CAPI
  integration work. Current methods have created a lot of toil to accept.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- We added support for configuring internal domains through CC APIs. In addition, we added a BOSH property on the BOSH DNS adapter job to specify internal domains. 
- As we prepare for GA of service discovery, we plan to no longer seed the `apps.internal` domain, but allow operators to configure a domain on their choice.
- We also continued to work on getting the Istio Router on the overlay.
- This week we are working on enabling BPM for CF networking components.


### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review



Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* |
|| - Released service instance sharing (CLI and SAPI) and service account authorization (CLI and UAA)
|| - Fetching service instances and bindings (Services API)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
|| - Async service binding creation and deletion (Services API)
|| - Droplet upload, variable substitution, and BOSH release (CLI)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Server side app manifest (CAPI, CLI)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
