# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-08-21

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau

- Released CLI [`v6.38.0`](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.38.0) - includes support for pushing with multiple buildpacks, changes to the `cf app` display whereby users on cc api `3.27` or higher would see the app display backed by the v3 endpoint, support for invocation timeout configuration, updated to Golang `1.10.3`, support for SOCKS5, etc
- Still working on buildpacks stacks association, whereby buildpacks can have the same name as long as they have a unique stack. This work is to help with the transition to Cflinuxfs3 in April 2019. 
- Working on refactoring `create-org` and `create-space` in order to fix a bug with `cf auth` and client credentials
- Completed work for adding `--origin` to the `cf auth` command to allow users to more seamlessly log in to different identity providers 

### Garden - Julz Friedman

 - BPMified garden (final pre-req for rootless) shipped and ready to be deployed!
 - Will work with Diego to communicate to operators how to get ready for rootless / find and migrate away from privileged containers
 - First couple CPU stories shipped
 - Containerd phase 1 now running quite nicely on PWS, we plan to make this the default reasonably soon (we will continue to support the built-in runner at least until windows does not need it, but will be able to start losing some of our linux-specific custom bits)
 - Identified some edge cases for Containerd resilience (i.e. what happens when containerd dies during operation X) that we're going to be fixing
 - Started exploring porting rootless work over to Containerd so we can get back to Zero Feature Flags

### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman

 - Smoke tests and now > 50% of core CATs passing!
 - Cracking through core CATs at a good rate, none look too scary
 - Risk: still need to coordinate landing our PR to CAPI
 - Talking to bits service about moving our image endpoint there (makes more sense than being a separate thing)
 - Once core cats are passing we'll start looking at highest priority non-core features, e.g. instance creds, c2c, volumes etc

### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Rep can experimentally opt into supplying new Garden CPU weight parameter on containers
- Added new ActualLRPs endpoint to BBS API to report Suspect LRP instances more directly
- Working on adding new LRP and Task fields to express all non-rootfs container filesystem assets declaratively
- Rep respects maximum concurrency of container destroy operations when clearing out stray containers on startup
- Discovered performance issue running the BBS and Locket benchmark at 250k-container scale against a MySQL PXC cluster with TLS enabled; plan to investigate with the MySQL team soon
- Investigated some potential approaches to and pitfalls of adopting Go modules with Golang 1.11


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`


#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`


#### `cf-acceptance-tests`


#### `cf-smoke-tests`



### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

[haproxy_boshrelease v9.0.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases) is released:

- `haproxy_boshrelease` now supports the same `X-Forwarded-Client-Cert` behaviors as the
  gorouter. You can set `ha_proxy.forwarded_client_cert` to `always_forward_only`, `forward_only`,
  or `sanitize_set`. However, the default for `haproxy_boshrelease` is `sanitize_set`. This differs
  from previous behaviors.

Thanks to @jgf for supplying this feature!

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor


### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Finishing server side application manifests
- Working on rolling application updates

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown

* Finishing up our backup and restore work.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Preethi Varambally
- We went GA with Polyglot Service Discovery. Users can now configure one or more custom internal domains or continue to use 'apps.internal' if they wish to.
- We have completed API work for supporting app and space level dynamic egress egress policies. Our next track of work would be to add support to allow configuring destination objects for external services that can be used to define egress policies. This gets us one step close to acheiving parity with ASGs.
- New deploys were occasionally failing due to timeouts while the DB migration script ran.  In some cases multi-statement migrations would timeout and be in a state that could not be resumed. We worked on a fix to split the migration into chunks so the deploy could restart where it timed out.
- We are researching on a track of work to enhance container to container policies. Currently the app devs can only create a policy from an app to another app. We have received feedback for less granular policy configuration at the space and org levels. 


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz

