# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-09-18

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Abby Chau


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Paused server side manifest until we have CLI intergation and feedback
- Improving rotating database encryption key feature with safety checks and better documentation
- Working on rolling application updates

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Bits-Service (incubating) - Peter Goetz

**Accomplished:**
- Bits-Service is running in Bluemix Production. YAY!!!
- No serious issues, no performance degradation found.
- Released version 2.11.0.
    - Fixes minor regression: file timestamps in zip packages got reset which is different than in CC. Fixed now.

**Working on:**
- Remaining features to go GA:
    - S3 Server Side Encryption
    - S3 IAM Instance Profiles
- Spike on integrating Bits-Service as Docker registry with Eirini

**Upcoming:**
- Working with RelInt to go GA
- Working with PWS to deploy Bits-Service there

### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### Permissions (incubating) - Christopher Brown


### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Eirini (incubating) - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Continuing work in BBS in support of ActualLRP list endpoints and instance-specific events
- Adding metrics to the BBS to report counts of suspect ActualLRP records periodically
- Continuing to work with Garden to manage shared directories when both Garden and the cell rep run in BPM containers
- Upgrading diego-release to Golang 1.11


### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Container Networking - Preethi Varambally
- We are continuing to work on adding support to allow configuring destination objects for external services that can be used to define egress policies.
- We have begun exploring adding the capability for C2C policy enforcement through app manifest.

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
* Troubleshooting of High CPU Consumption on Dopplers
* Simplification of Iso Segs using log-cache + log-cache CLI
* Submitted RLP Gateway changes to cf-deployment
* BPM Work 



### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`


#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - Josh Collins

#### `cf-deployment`
- Scope of [cf-d v5.0.0](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1M674BR1gHeKJKJ-lctG-jGDe4oYtRaM0ZGeIfQhB6MQ/edit?usp=sharing) finalized - September 27th release target
- putting down small footprint MVP track in lieu of increased focus on CATs

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- Made updates Go 1.11 compatibility updates.
- Accommodated the subtle differences that NSX-T exhibits when blocking traffic (versus Silk) to enable CF foundations using the NSX-T container plugin (NCP) to pass the security groups acceptance test.
- Flake reduction:
  - Removed negative windows healthcheck tests from CATs. The component teams agree this behavior could be tested in a component test.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
No updates

### MySQL - Marco Nicosia
