# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-01-10

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Dies Köper
- Released cf CLI 6.34 ([Release notes](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.34.0)):
  - The `v2-push` that was exposed in cf CLI 6.33.0 has become the default `push`
  - `push` now preserves relative **symlinks** in app files
  - Resolved more than 10 GitHub issues.
  - Deprecated app manifest features:
    - `push` no longer supports ["promoted" (global) attributes](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest.html#minimize-duplication). You can use YAML anchors instead.
    - `push` no longer supports [app manifest inheritance](http://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest.html#multi-manifests). Preparing a proposal on value substitution as an alternative to inheritance.
    - `push` no longer supports app manifest route declarations using any of `host`, `hosts`, `domain`, `domains` or `no-hostname` attributes. You can use `route` attributes instead.
- Published [blog post](https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/coming-changes-app-manifest-simplification/) describing app manifest deprecations and alternative features. Shared with cf-dev email list.  
- Started acceptance on shared service commands; expecting to release after CAPI release that supports the relevant APIs
- Started investigation on how we'll make "v3" app commands the default; planning to detect the user's CC version and execute commands as v2 or v3 as appropriate; discussing server side app manifests with CAPI
- Features starting soon:
  - Authentication with client id & secret (no user)
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
- Further out:
  - Droplet upload
  - Last login time displayed on `login`

### Garden - Julz Friedman


### Garden-Windows - A William Martin

- Implemented the peas API and sidecar container functionality. Includes supporting the `run` command in `winc`.
- Waiting on a fix from MSFT to a container deletion issue in Windows Server before moving forward with calling the solution GA on cf-deployment.
- Verified that remote debugging a .NET application via Visual Studio works on Cloud Foundry.
- Worked with BOSH team on implementing DNS functionality to resolve components from within Windows containers.
- Investigated the shutdown characteristics of Windows containers and found the way to leverage graceful shutdown of applications, previously not possible on 2012R2.
- Verified that SMB mount features in Windows Server v1709 can support CF volume services.
- `winc` supports read-only and non-read-only bind mounts.

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Planning to cut a Diego v2.0 release soon, please see proposal on cf-dev and give feedback
- Progressing on new set of upgrade tests for Diego components that is less tightly coupled to CF components and deployment sequences
- Declarative healthchecks ready for experimental use on Diego cells as of v1.31.0
- Route-integrity ready for experimental use as of v1.32.1:
    - Envoy sidecar proxies now drain TCP traffic correctly on graceful instance shutdown
    - Diego cells detect readiness of Envoy sidecar proxies before declaring instance healthy when declarative healthchecks are enabled
- Locket emits request count and duration metrics periodically
- Fixed an Docker app lifecycle incompatibility with certain Docker registries introduced in Diego v1.29.0


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`

#### `etcd-release`

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-release`

#### `cf-deployment`

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`

#### `cf-smoke-tests`

#### `nats-release`


### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Released [v24](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v24)
  - Startup script does not fail anymore after a vm reboot
  - Fixed a quoting issue with db user password
- Moving upgrade pipeline from cf-release to cf-deployment


### HAProxy - Geoff Franks


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor
- Working to ensure that Loggregator and cf-syslog-drains pass uptimer. 
  - After much research it was concluded to satisfy HA requirement 2 dopplers per zone are needed
  - Thas has been blocking Loggregator integration - there is some risk of late integration.
- Started on the improved persistance layer for logs --recent (log cache)
- Investigating a feasibility prototype for deploying an isolation segment for Loggregator
  - Researching what UX would be most important to operators for this. 

### UAA - Sree Tummidi


### CAPI - Zach Robinson
- Completing named services bindings
- Preparing proposal for server side app manifests
- Kicked off Zero Downtime app deployments Engineering research effort
- Pairing with Permissions to integrate AuthZ checks

### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Permissions - Christopher Brown

#### Completed

* Cloud Controller v3 endpoints now multiplex permission checks both internally
  and externally to Perm.

#### Upcoming

* Started work on the migration tooling for moving roles from Cloud Controller
  to Perm.
* A cross-team pair has started exploring how the same approach can be applied
  to the v2 endpoints.

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran


### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | - cf-deployment GA'd: cf-release deprecation period ends at end of month ([email](https://lists.cloudfoundry.org/g/cf-dev/message/7641))
|| - Deprecated app manifest features in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.34.0)
|| - Delivered improved `push` command by making formerly experimental `v2-push` features the default in [cf CLI](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.34.0)
||
*Soon* | - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Service instance sharing
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Droplet upload with cf CLI
|| - Make experimental v3 app commands users' default commands
|| - Sharing service instances across orgs and spaces (Services API)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
