# Runtime PMC Meeting 2018-03-20

## Agenda

* Announcements
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
* CF Feature Roadmap Review


## Announcements


## PMC Lifecycle Activities


## Discussion


## Backlog Reviews

### CLI - Jay Badenhope
- Released [CF CLI v6.35.0](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.35.0) with service instance sharing (w/SAPI) and client credentials (w/UAA)
- Released [CF CLI v6.35.1](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cli/releases/tag/v6.35.1) to fix a bug with service instance sharing
- Continue cross-team pairing with CAPI on server side app manifest
- Started development of Droplet Upload feature
- Started BOSH release for CF CLI
- Features starting soon:
   - App manifest variable substitution (to replace inheritance, which we deprecated)
- Further out:
  - Re-factor `service-access` command (to unblock SAP team)
  - Fetch service instance and binding parameters
  - Internationalization
  - TCP port range support for router groups. ([Draft release notes](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/story/show/143621081))
  - Last login time displayed on `login`


### Garden - Julz Friedman

- Garden 1.12 and 1.12.1 released. New more operator-friendly Garbage collection!
- Removed btrfs support from groot
- Fire-fighting some issues now that we've switched over to groot by default and it's getting more usage.
  - Added higher monit timeouts to work around slowness starting up in some environments. We're also spending some time trying to get a better handle on how monit actually works, since it turns out we do not know.
- Begun work has on some refactorings needed before properly embarking on containerd integration track
- Potential future roadmap item (soliciting input): hearing increasing numbers of people having pain with both cpu reporting and fair sharing in loaded environments.

### Garden-Windows - A William Martin


### Diego - Eric Malm

- Fixed bug that caused Envoy to limit number of concurrent TCP connections
- Started lager log readability improvements
- Adding example app that correctly handles HTTP requests during graceful shutdown to the CF docs
- Exploring request failures in the presence of delayed route un/registration messages
- Cleaned up list of BOSH properties that have been deprecated and removed from diego-release


### Routing - Shannon Coen


### Infrastructure - Evan Farrar

#### `consul-release`
- No changes.

#### `bosh-bootloader` (a.k.a `bbl`)
- We held a retro with some CF teams in SF to understand more about the difficulties during upgrades between recent major versions of BBL.
- We poked more at finding the next major blocker for BBL support on Windows. We hit our timebox and paused at "tar during create-env fails" (story). We also have previously discovered that netcat is a major missing dependency for both Windows and RHEL support, so we've PRed a workaround for this
- We've made a BBL plan patch so that teams can beta-test using an ALB on AWS, which will eventually be the new default opinion for deploying CF, so try it out!
- Plan patch to use Amazon Certificate Manager
- In design: UX Refactoring of Advanced workflows


### Release Integration - David Sabeti

#### `cf-deployment`
- More release automation:
  - nfs-volume-release
  - silk-release
  - haproxy-boshrelease
- Running more experimental features in the pipeline:
  - Windows2016 cells
  - silk-release
- Moving towards using Credhub instead of vars-stores.
- Deleted transition pipelines
- Investigated options for keeping A1.

#### `cf-deployment-concourse-tasks`
- Upgraded to bbl6
- `bbl-up` interface allows for operators to customize their infrastructure by passing artifacts through to `bbl`.
- Migrated tasks for running CATs from the [cats-concourse-task](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cats-concourse-task) into the repo
- In the process of building new tasks that don't require a vars-store, so that we can rely on Credhub instead.

#### `cf-acceptance-tests`
- WATs have been merged in! Looking to merge in RATs soon as well.

#### `cf-smoke-tests`
- No changes

### postgres-release - Valeria Perticara
- Bumped [release v28](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/postgres-release/releases/tag/v28) that upgrades to PostgreSQL 9.6.8.

### HAProxy - Geoff Franks

haproxy-boshrelease v8.7.0 is out with haproxy 1.8, crt-list support, and a large number of bug fixes to mutual tls, accept-proxy, internally restricted domains, custom request/response headers, whitelist/blacklisted CIDRs, and other TLS bind options.

https://github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/haproxy-boshrelease/releases/tag/v8.7.0


### MySQL - Marco Nicosia


### Loggregator - Adam Hevenor


### UAA - Sree Tummidi
- Filip is working on updates to Spring SAML library that will eventually be updated in UAA.
- Multiple channels reported the SAML CVE issue identified by Duo Security affecting multiple identity vendor products. Identified that UAA was not vulnerable to the attack vector after attempting the attack against UAA.
- Completed token claims required by Kubernetes
- Continuing on achieving OpenID Connect certification


### CAPI - Zach Robinson


### Services API - Matthew McNeeney


### Permissions - Christopher Brown

* Working on Production Readiness and Migration
  * Audit Logging Done
  * HA Database work started
  * Backup/Restore started

### PERSI - Julian Hjortshoj


### Container Networking - Usha Ramachandran
- We released silk-release v0.1.0 as part of an effort to split networking into core and swappable components
- We added support for multiple interfaces, but broke c2c policy in silk-release in the process. We reverted the commit and will send a message out to the community in case they are using the silk-release experimental ops file
- We are adding support for CNI plugin chaining to make it easier to add custom networking features without needing changes to core components
- We continued to work on adding Envoy in the data path for c2c traffic, and will be picking up a story soon to transparently proxy c2c traffic through the container Envoy


### Bits-Service - Simon Moser


## CF Feature Roadmap Review

See [this proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K7t_p_NT2F7_Dk3eiv7_g1v3rzFE2GLbTQZTY_V-Les/edit#) for background of this section.

Delivered When? | What?
------|------
*Recently Completed* | 
|| - Released service instance sharing (CLI and SAPI) and service account authorization (CLI and UAA)
|| - Fetching service instances and bindings (Services API)
||
*Soon* | **cf-deployment GA:**
|| - Start of 2 month deprecation period for cf-release ([proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KLl4UIQbl92SvYom4fO-LcEoMK1D45KmjA988MwnOR4/edit?usp=sharing))
|| - CF Release Integration team helping community to migrate
|| - CredHub credential generation & rotation for CF components
|| - Ensure route integrity via instance-identity credentials (Diego, Routing, Garden)
|| - Garden will stop requiring root privileges, begin clock on ending support for privileged containers
|| - Use layered filesystems instead of streaming-in for droplets (expected to lead to performance improvements especially for use cases involving large droplets)
|| - Async service binding creation and deletion (Services API)
|| - Droplet upload, variable substitution, and BOSH release (CLI)
||
*Next* | - GrootFS (OCI-compliant rootfs downloader)
|| - Server side app manifest (CAPI, CLI)
|| - Zero-downtime app updates (CAPI, Diego)
|| - Deprecation of Consul for management plane service discovery (Infrastructure, RelInt, BOSH)
||
*Future* | - Improve reliability of placing large-footprint app instances with less system capacity (Diego)
||

*Above are plans, not commitments, and may change without notice.*
