# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-06-02

## Agenda

1. TCP router into cloudfoundry-incubator
2. Java client for the Receptor API from Diego
2. PMC Lifecycle Activities
3. Current Backlog and Priorities
4. Open Discussion

## Attendees


## PMC Lifecycle Activities
No objections to having TCP Router in the cloudfoundry-incubator

Ryan Morgan proposing moving a java client for the Receptor API from Diego into incubation and the Runtime PMC.
Ryan to send out the proposal to cf-dev for comment.
Chip suggests having that as part of the Utilities PMC.

  
## Current Backlogs and Priorities

### TCP Routing - Shannon
- Routing component for TCP Proxy, dynamically configurable and bosh deployable
- support for bosh-lite
- scoped out stories for integration with Diego, making a new component called tcp route emitter with SSE and polling.
- driving towards first milestone for development with Lattice

## UAA - Sree
 - Close to delivering password policy feature for UAA and multi-tenant zones
 - next set of work is for UI updates
 - 
## Diego
- Finished 50 cell experiment
- starting 100 cell experiment, hitting some performance issues with route emitter and some issues with locks and ... in consul
- almost done with first security story for mutual auth in etcd, may cause some additional performance hits to be evaluated.
- finishing up proposal for versioning and migration in Diego, may introduce a server layer in front of etcd
- will be pulling in some significant changes from garden linux which includes the go rewrite of wshd and uses btrfs for disk quotas

## LAMB - Erik
- Continuing to move away from collector, next week will pair with teams on that
- performance for ....
- Removing metron related shims
- John Tuley departing, Alex Jackson will be filling in as anchor in the mean time.
- 
## Runtime

- restarting v3 process types
  - docs coming will enable use of API to push a v3 app
  - likely to reincept process types soon

## Routing Team
- wrapping up performance investigation of mvp routing API
- will prioritize CC using Routing API to register its own route
  - Michael asked whether we will support ruby, java, etc (replace route-registrar libraries?)
  - we have a go CLI we recommend clients use, considering offering this CLI as a bosh release for easy consumption

## Lattice - Marco
- Published Lattice 0.2.5
- pushing to do small 0.2.6 update
- spiking on how to implement condensor outside of cloud foundry
- using riak cs, talking with New York about how to make this work.


## PMC Lifecycle Activities

Michael - IBM would like to propose FIPS-140 support for Cloud Foundry, anything using ssl.  Will soon send out a proposal.
Has impacts on most components. Current focus on core components.

Michael - sometimes issues and prs taking a while to get acknowledged/stalled.
Dieu will talk to team about re-opening github issues if PRs are reverted.

