# Runtime PMC Meeting 2015-12-15

## Agenda
* PMC Lifecycle Activities
* Backlog Review
- PMC Cancelled for December 29th

## PMC Lifecycle Activities

- Container Networking (Evan Ferrar). Evan will update docs with milestones and scope and update cf-dev. Then reproposed incubation on next call
- Michael says that the elastic cluster proposal could use some improvement; move answered questions into body of doc. Strange that so much content is buried in FAQ. OTW, Michael says his questions in the doc have been addressed.
- Atul asked about status of Persistence proposal; Dr. Max is behind the proposal but was not on the call. We suggested Atul follow up in the doc using comments, or on cf-dev.
- Atul asked for more information about IPSec encryption. Shannon and Atul to investigate how the point of contact is and how to make this more discoverable.

## Backlog Reviews

### Garden - Will Pragnell

#### Garden-Linux

- Shipped v0.330.0, which improved security around streaming in and out of containers

#### Guardian (OCS/runC)

- Lots of progress. Heading towards an MMVP line which will allow us to deploy with Diego and begin testing performance and integration. Hoping to hit this very early in 2016.
  - No docker image support yet
  - No resource limits yet
- Working with the container-to-container networking team to figure out how they'll integrate with Guardian. Going well.

### Greenhouse - Steven Benario

- Velocity/team strength down. Holidays, travel, etc.
- Last two week has been chores.
- Upcoming roadmap include improved debugability and ease of install

### Diego - Eric Malm

- Bind-mounting buildpack downloads: BBS/executor story in flight
- Improving reliability of etcd interactions in BBS benchmarks; already fixed one problem that caused creates to flake
- Auctioneer retries state queries with exponential backoff
- Refactored executor internals to ensure fast state responses
- Upgrade-from-stable test suite complete, working on running reliably in CI
- Reproducing slow evacuation times to validate some proposed changes (native port health-check, accounting for scheduled starts in the auction)

### Routing - Shannon Coen



### MEGA - Amit Gupta

#### Infrastructure (Consul, etcd, NATS, Postgres, environment bootstrapping)

 * Finished re-write of Consul start-up scripts in test-driven Golang
 * Added recursor functionality to Consul DNS server, which should solve many issues seen by users

#### Release Integration (cf-release, integration pipelines, DEA, Warden, HM9k)

 * Upgraded Postgres to 9.4.5 to address medium CVE (done by RelInt team because they picked up the story before Tracker split)
 * Cut v226 cf-release
 * Extracted uaa-release from cf-release, now BOSH and CF use the same release
 * Ongoing investigation of flaky smoke tests on BOSH-Lite
 * Major update and simplification of docs for deploying CF (currently on docs-staging, not yet on docs.cloudfoundry.org)
 * Numerous community and pipeline things

### Loggregator - Jim Campbell

 * Metron->Doppler TCP and TLS development is code complete. Documentation on installation proceeding. 
 * Loggregator as separate release proceeding.
 * Starting performance characterization of Loggregator end to end
 * [Loggregator Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QOCUIlTkhGzVwfRji7Q14vczqkBbFGkiDWrJSKdRLRg/edit?usp=sharing) published to cf-dev for comment

### UAA - Sree Tummidi
 * UAA 3.0 work in progress. This release will include the Java Client Lib, server side refactoring to share the model between client & server interactions, ability to clean up Identity Zones and Identity Providers among others.
 * The team is also invetigating the use of Swagger & Spring Docs to improve the UAA API Docs overall experience
 * The next big thing that team will focus on is the ability to white-label the UI and remove all the Pivotal Specific references and assets from the Open Source UAA Repo

### CAPI - Dieu Cao

- No update available

### Flintstones - Simon Moser

- No update available
